ELDER LORENZO SNOW.
Personal appearance of the Savior— Promises
made to the Elders—Have ihey been Fulfilled
—
Union of the Priesthood— Proper respect in
Families.
Brethren and sisters and friends, I
hope during the short time that I address you this morning I may have the
benefit of your prayers, and the exercise of your faith.
At these general Conferences it is
the privilege of everyone who attends
to receive instruction, suited to his individual needs and benefits, of great
worth, and if we pay proper attention
to what is said and exercise the proper
faith, there will be no disappo"utment.
Now, I wish to read a few verses
from the Doctrine and Covenants,
Section 110, which describes one of the
most important events of our day.
"The veil was taken from our minds,
and the eyes of our understanding
were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit,
before us, and under His feet was a
paved work of pure gold, in color like
amber. His eyes were as a flame of
fire, and the hair of his head was
white like the pure snow. His countenance shone above the brightness of
the sun, and His voice was as the
sound of the rushing of great waters,
even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I
am the first and the last,
1 am He who liveth. I am
He who was slain, I am your advocate with the Father. Behold your
sins are forgiven you, you are clean
before me, therefore lift up your heads
and rejoice. Let the hearts of your
brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of
all my people rejoice, who have, with
their might, built this house to my
name. For behold, I have accepted
this house, and my name shall be here,
and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house, yea, I will
appear unto my servants, and speak
unto them with mine own voice, if
my people will keep my commandments, and do not pollute this holy
house. Tea, the hearts of thousands
and tens of thousands shall greatly
rejoice in consequence of the blessings which shall be poured out, and
the endowment with which my servants have been endowed in this
house; and the fame of this house
shall spread to foreign lands, and this
is the beginning of the blessing which
shall be poured upon the heads of my
people. Even so. Amen."
We have heard, brethren and sisters,
very excellent principles, explained to
us yesterday, and this morning by
Apostle Richards, and our hearts have
been made to rejoice in the contemplation of the positions that we occupy, of the prospects that are before
us, and of the glorious records that
many, and I hope all, have made in
the past. It is strange, that there are
so few that have come to an understanding that God has revealed Him-

self unto His people, that His voice
has been heard, as I have just read to
you.and for what He has accomplished
through the Holy Priesthood that He
has caused to be conferred upon many
of His servants. Thirteen hundred or
thereabouts of the servants of God are
now traveling through the world as
oracles of God and testifying of these
most extraordinary facts, and are
promising in the name of the Almighty, by virtue of the divine authority they possess, that those who
will obey the Gospel which they are
authorized to administer, shall receive a knowledge of these important
truths. It is a marvelous fact that
there are thirteen hundred men who
are now promising in the name of the
Lord and explaining how every person may know, and know effectually,
know by revelation, that their promises
are of the Almighty, that they have
authority to thus prophesy, prophesy
of that which is most important; in
fact, there could be nothing of
greater importance to mortal man
than that which pertains to their
prophecy, and all men have a
right or the privilege of ascertaining,
in a very simple way, whether that
prediction is from God.
This is indeed strange and wonderful. Jt is strange and wonderful to
the world because such things have
never been heard of or known for centuries. What is their prediction that
is of such high importance to all people? Why, this: Having stated before the c3ngregations of the world
that they are authorized to preach
the Gospel of life and salvation, that
they are authorized to promise the
gift of the Holy Ghost, that shall lead
into all truth and show things to come,
and shall testify in reference to their
authority, then to make this prediction that such as will obey the simple
principles of the Gospel, shall receive
a perfect knowledge, a knowledge not by the reading of
books, the Scriptures or any
past revelations that may have been
given, but they shall receive a knowledge of this from God Himself. Well
now, all that is required of these individuals to know that which pertains
to their salvation, exaltation and glory
i-- simply to do that which has been
made plain, very plain indeed by
Jesus Christ and by the Apostles, as
contained in the Scriptures of truth;
to perform a few acts in relation to
the principles of life or a few acts that
will put. them in possession, after
I roper preparation, of this important
knowledge.
Jesus Christ went down into tht;
waters of baptism and was immersed
there by John the Baptist, who had
authority thus to do; and many others,
in the days of the Apostles, performed
those ordinances that pertain to the
everlasting Gospel. They were baptized for the remission of their sins
by one that possessed the authority
which, those Elders that I mention
now, possess. They possessed the authority to administer those ordinances
—immersion ir. water for the remission of sins, the laying on of hands
for the reception of the Holy Ghost.
These simple acts were actually performed by the Apostles in former
days, and by the Seventies that were
sent forth, and by all who were sent
to preach the fullness of the Gospel.
All that these Elders require in order
that their predictions may be fulfilled
is that people now shall do likewise.
Jesuf, said on a certain occasion,
that He would build His Church
upon revelation: that is, Peter having
received a revelation that Jesus was
the Son of God and so saying Jesus
replied, "Upon this rock will I build
my Church and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it." The system of
salvation and exaltation and glory
was of such a character that there
was this grand feature about it, all
persons might receive a perfect knowledge of its divine source.
When we take into consideration
the difficulties those have to meet
who obey these principles we see the
necessity that they should have a
perfect knowledge of that which they
have received, and thus the Lord bestows upon them the means by which
they can contend against the difficulties and the persecutions and secure
the blessings connected with these
promises. When people follow the
counsels of these servants of the Lord
who are abroad preaching the Gospel,
if they do not come to a knowledge of


the truth of these promises from
heaven after they have obeyed, they
ought to declare this: they should
announce this failure to their friends,
and to the public. I suppose, I am nowaddressing six or eight thousand people, and probably three-fifths of them
have come 'from the distant nations of
the earth, to these mountain vales,
and these are the principles that we
taught them, that they should receive
a knowledge of this work, they should
receive the Holy Ghost that would
testify to them of the truth of the
saying of these "Riders that they had
authority to administer the ordinances
of the Gospel. Now, I ask, why are
you here? Why are: you sitting upon
these seats? Why are you teaching
your families and friends that these
principles are of God, that Joseph
Smith was a Prophet of God, that
Jesus came down and talked with His
people, the sons and daughters of God,
as He did in former days? Why do
you teach these principles, and why do
you sit here instead of repairing to
your homes and declaring that you
never received any such divine testimony, as was promised you?
I think if strangers came to me, as
Elders now go to the nations, and
testified to me that they had authority to promise that the Holy Ghost
would rest upon me after repenting
of my sins, forsaking them, and obeying their message, and I did not receive any extraordinary or miraculous
manifestations, I certainly would not
leave my friends, country, and home,
as thousands and thousands have
done. But it is a fact that I am
speaking to thousands here that have
come from long distances, from many
nations of the earth, that are here
and have been here for years and
years; why is it they do not rise up
and deny that they or their friends
ever received this testimony? In
these verses that I have read in your
hearing, it is declared that the Son of
God appeared in the Kirtland Temple
sixty- one years ago, and spoke there
to His friends.
Years ago on my Palestine tour, I
was one day upon the Mount of Olives,
where Jesus left the earth and ascended to His Father, witness3d by
persons that were there present, and I
did not doubt that I was at the place
where, as T read in the Testament,
that Jesus took His departure from.
While I looked around and gazed
about, I believed that I was there at
that place; I believed that Jesus did
actually take farewell of the world
and go to His Father, because certain individuals say and did make a
declaration that that was the fact.
Now I did not see these persons that
testified to this extraordinary occurrence. I saw no such persons; because
it was over eighteen hundred years ago
that this extraordinary circumstance
occurred. But this that I have been
reading in your hearing, occurred in
this age. I was personally acquainted
with the parties who saw this wonderful manifestation—intimately acquainted with Joseph Smith and Oliver
Cowdery. I was acquainted with Joseph
Smith for years. And I know Brother
Oliver Cowdery to have been a good
man, honorable, honest, and truthful;
although years after this, Oliver Cowdery left the Church for a while. He
became proud and exalted, and left
the Church; but the spirit and the testimony never left him, and after suffering the afflictions of the Lord, he
repented and was very glad to come
back into the Church, and he got back
just in time to go into the other world,
and that is just about the whole of
it so far as Oliver Cowdery was concerned.
"Well now,these things are worthy the
attention of the Latter-day Saints, and
when we take them into consideration
and bring them home to our understanding, what follows? Why, that
we should be the best people that God
has upon the earth, and far better than
any other. The Lord has given us a
Prophet, to give counsels in reference
to that which pertains to the general
interests of the Latter-day Saints continually, and He has blessed him
abundantly. There is not one that
can dispute the honesty and integrity
of Brother Wilford Woodruff,our President. We know him. Years and
years he has been testifying of these
things of which I have been speaking,
and he says he knows them, he says
he understands them distinctly; and
we ourselves should know them. Per-


haps not quite as extensively as he
knows them. For instance, an astronomer may know a thousand things in
reference to the revolving of the earth
in its orbit around the sun, and know a
great many facts in reference to the
sun that thousands are ignorant of;
and yet these thousands that are perfectly ignorant of those many things,
know one thing that this astronomer
knows, they know that there is a sun,
they see there is a sun; they know it
just as well as he knows it. In reference to this Gospel and our prospects
in the next life, there are thousands
that know it just as well as President
Woodruff knows it; and when the
resurrection is spoken of, they know it
just as well as President "Woodruff
knows it. In reference to "Mormonism," as it is sometimes called, there
are thousands that know it just as
well as Joseph Smith knew it. They
know it because God has revealed it to
them perfectly.
There is no man that knows the
truth of this work more than I do. I
know it fully; I know it distinctly. I
know there is a God just as well as
any man knows it, because God has revealed himself to me. I know it positively. I shall never forget the manifestations of the Lord; I never will
forget them as long as memory endures. It is in me. There is something
to labor for, there is something to sacrifice for. When the Elders go forth
among the nations, they dare to say
this; they dare to say that God has
revealed himself. They dare to say
that God has spoken to His sons and
daughters as He did in former days,
and they dare to say that He has
heard the prayers of the house of Israel, He has heard the prayers of the
honest in heart, and He has come
down as He did in the days of Israel
when they were in Egyptian bondage
to deliver them; He has come down to
relieve the distressed, and to confer
upon them knowledge, intellectually,
spiritually, and to place them in a
country where they can be blessed and
saved from that half-starvation in
Avhich many have been found where the
Gospel reached them.
Well, these are glorious principles
that God has revealed to us, and our
prospects are grand and glorious. Why,
we could talk through all the days, the
weeks and the months about the grand
things that the Lord has prepared for
those that are faithful and continue to
the end. There should be greater union
in our midst than we find today.
There is a perfect union in the quorum of the Twelve. Should there not
be a perfect union in that quorum?
Most assuredly, every one would say
Yes, a perfect union in the quorum of
the Twelve Apostles; and whoever
may be appointed to fill the places of
those that are vacant, this union will
still continue with us. And there is
also a perfect union with the First
Presidency, and should there not be?
Every one will say, certainly, there
should be. And should there not be
a perfect union with the seven presidents of the Seventies? There most
assuredly should be; we all say Yes.
Should there not be a perfect union
with the High Councils of the various
Stakes of Zion? Certainly there should
be, and there is a way to accomplish
that union. And the same way with
the various other organizations and
quorums. Should there not be a perfect union with the presidencies of
Sta.kes? Certainly, and if I were a
president of a Stake, I would not rest
day or night until I had union with my
counselors. Should there not be a union
with the Bishop and his Counselors?
Most assuredly there should be.
Well, what is more important?
Should there not be union in the family? Should there not be union with
the husband, who is the High Priest
in his family and expects to be with
them in the next life, should there not
be a perfect union with him and his
wife, or wives, and his sons, his daughters, his sons-in-law, and his daughers-in-law? Most assuredly there
should. And why should any man be
satisfied, why should any husband and
father of a family rest satisfied until
he effects a perfect union, that is, just
as far as a perfect union can be accomplished? And in this matter the
father should make himself just as
perfect as a man can in this life be
made perfect before his family. And
the wife should make herself just as
perfect as a woman can possibly do in
this life. And then they are prepared
to make their children just as perfect
as they are willing and are capable of
being made perfect. And the father

and the mother should be very careful.
The wife should never in the presence
of her children speak disrespectfully
of her husband. If she thinks her husband has done wrong (he might have
done), she should never speak of it in
the presence of her children. She
should take him out of the presence of
her children and there tell him of his
faults, in a pleasant way, but never in
the presence of the children speak disrespectfully of the father. And the
father the same. He has no right to
speak disrespectfully of his wife in
the presence of her children. And I
pray God to give the husband and wife
the spirit and the understanding to
correct themselves in such matters. I
know that a great many of the difficulties that now appear, and the disrespect that we find in reference to the
Priesthood, among young people, arises
from this fact, that there have been
difficulties in the home circle,and there
has been disrespect expressed in their
presence, of the father by the mother,
or of the mother by the father. Now
I know these things are so.
Well, I see my time has expired. God
bless you, my brethren and sisters, and
fill you with His Holy Spirit, that we
may become sanctified, that we may
be worthy to stand in the presence of
God in time to come. Amen.


PRESIDENT JOSEPH F- SMITH.
The Law of Tithing—Blessings Predicated upon its
Observance—Practical Illustrations of its Results
—Personal Testimony.
I cannot say that I feel in excellent
condition to address the Conference
this morning, but it is desired that I
should say a few words, or read a few
words, to you, as the Spirit may direct.
Before entering, however, upon my remarks, I, perhaps, should make an
apology, for it is really not agreeable
with my feelings to diverge, in the
least, from the channel of the remarks
which we have received during this
morning's service and throughout all
the day yesterday; for the brethren
have been led on spiritual matters,
and they have spoken to us, by the
Spirit, and have given unto us many
very important truths, suggestions and
admonitions, and I would delight to
continue in the tenor of those remarks
for the short time that I may occupy,
3
but if I do not, it will be because I
feel impresed that there is a duty resting upon me which I will endeavor,
by the blessing of the Lord to perform.
I desire to remind the congregation
that we are coming to the close of the
fruitful season of the year, and while
many of the people have perhaps not
gathered as heavy crops as they would
like to have gathered, and as they
may have gathered in the years past,
yet, taking our country, and valleys,
as a whole, we are led to believe that
the harvests have been bounteous, and
that the Lord has blessed the earth
this year, and has given to the husbandman excellent fruits for his labors; and it is desirable that we should
reflect upon this matter for a little
season.In connection with this thought,.
I will take the liberty to read toyou a few of the written words of the
Gospel on temporal matters, which I
think apply to us in our present condition and at this time.
In answer to a question, "O Lord,
show unto thy servants how much
thou requirest of the properties of the
people for a tithing?" the Lord answered:
"Verily thus saith the Lord, I require all the surplus property to be
put into the hands of the Bishop of my
Church of Zion, for the building of
mine house, and for the laying of the
foundation of Zion and for the Priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church. And this shall
be the beginning of the tithing of my
people. And after that, those who
have thus been tithed shall pay onetenth of all their interest annually;
and this shall be a standing law unto
them for ever, for my Holy Priesthood,
saith the Lord. Verily I say unto you,
it shall come to pass, that all those
who gather unto the land of Zion shall
be tithed of their surplus properties,
and shall observe this law, or they
shall not be found worthy to abide
among you. And I say unto you, if
my people observe not this law, to
keep it holy, and by this law sanctify
the land of Zion unto me, that my
statutes and my judgments may be
kept thereon, that it may be most holy,
verily I say unto you, it shall not be a
land of Zion unto you. And this shall
be an ensample unto all the Stakes of
Zion. Even so. Amen. (Doc. and
Cov., Sec. 119.)
Again it is said:
"Behold, now it is called today until
the coming of the Son of Man, and
verily it is a day of sacrifice and a day
for the tithing of my people, for he


that is tithed shall not be burned at
His coming, for after today cometh
the burning. This is speaking after
the manner of the Lord; for, verily I
say, tomorrow all the proud and they
that do wickedly shall be as stubble,
and I will burn them up, for I am the
Lord of hosts, and I will not spare any
that remain in Babylon." (Doc. and
Cov., Sec. 64, v. 23, 24.)
I do not read the following words
because I think they are entirely applicable to the Latter-day Saints, nor
because I suppose for a moment that
there is not a large proportion of the
members of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints who have never
in their hearts even thought of robbing God. But there are those among
xis who, even though they may not
have thought seriously that they were
.guilty of robbing God, they carelessly
:and through their negligence place
themselves in a position in which the
children of Israel found themselves
.anciently when the Prophet uttered
these words against them, and I propose to read them as they are, and let
them apply to whomsoever they will,
:and whoever are not guilty, of course,
"will feel clear in their consciences toward the Lord.
"Then shall the offering of Judah
••and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the
Lord, as in the days of old, and as in
former years. And I will come near
to you to judgment; and I will be a
swift witness against the sorcerers,
and against the adulterers,and against
lalse swearers, and against those that
oppress the hireling in his wages, the
widow, and the fatherless, and that
turn aside the stranger from his right,
and fear not me, saith the Lord of
hosts. For I am the Lord, I change
not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are
not consumed. Even from the days
of your fathers ye are gone away from
mine ordinances, and have not kept
them. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of hosts.
But ye said, wherein shall we return?
"Will a man rob God? Yet ye have
robbed me. But ye say, wherein have
we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. Ye are cursed with a curse; for
ye have robbed me, even this whole
nation. Bring ye all the tithes into
the store house, that there may be
meat in mine house, and prove me now
herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I
will not open you the windows of
heaven, and pour you out a blessing,
that there shall not be room enough
to receive it. And I will rebuke the
devourer for your sakes, and he shall
not destroy the fruits of your ground;
neither shall your vine cast her fruit
before the time in the field, saith the
Lord of hosts. And all nations shall
call you blessed, for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord of hosts.
Your words have been stout against
me, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, What
have we spoken so much against thee.
Ye have said, It is vain to serve God;
and what profit is it that we have
kept his ordinance, and that we have
walked mournfully before the Lord of
hosts? And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness
are set up; yea, they that tempt God
are even delivered. Then they that
feared the Lord spake often one to another, and the Lord hearkened and
heard it, and a book of remembrance
was written before him for them
that feared the Lord, and that thought
upon His name. And they shall be
mine, saith the Lord of hosts in that
day when I make up my jewels; and I
will spare them, as a man spareth his
own son that serveth him. Then shall
ye return, and discern between the
righteous and the wicked, between him
that serveth God and him that serveth
him not." (Mai. iii, 4-18.)
Now I want to read another little
passage of Scripture. It is ancient,
however, but it has an application;
and if I read it, you who hear it will
be able to make the application, possibly, to suit yourselves, or to suit
your neighbors. Rather let us make
the application to ourselves, each ol
us, and let each of our neighbors do
the same.
"And as soon as the commandment
came abroad, the children of Israel
brought, in abundance, the first fruits
of corn, wine and oil and honey and
of all the increase of the field, and
the tithe of all things brought they in
abundance. And concerning the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt
in the cities of Judah,they also brought
in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and
the tithe of holy things which were
consecrated unto the Lord their God,
and laid them by heaps. In the third
month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them
in the seventh month. And when
Hezekiah and the princes came and
saw the heaps, they blessed the Lord
and His people Israel. Then Hezekiah
questioned with the Priests and the
Levites concerning the heaps; and
Azariah, the chief priest of the house
of Zadnck, answered him and said,
'Since the people began to bring the
offerings into the house of the Lord
we have had enough to eat, and have
left plenty, for the Lord hath blessed
His neople, and that which is left is
this great store.' Then Hezekiah
commanded to prepare chambers in
the house of the Lord, and they prepared them." (2 Chronicles xxxi: 5-11.)

No doubt, a good deal more could be
read from the Scriptures in relation to
this principle of tithing, which God has
revealed to us in this dispensation, and
which He requires at our hands, that
we may sanctify, by obedience to His
law, this land that it may become indeed a land of Zion unto us; and the
promise is, that if we will obey the
laws of God, if we will put our trust
in Him, if we will draw near unto Him
He will draw near unto us, and He
will reward us with His favor and His
blessing'. He will rebuke the devourer, and He will cause that the earth
shall be fruitful, that it shall yield in
its strength to the husbandman, the
tiller of the soil, and to the herder of
flocks, He will increase his kine,
and will prosper him upon the right
hand and upon the left, and he shall
have an abundance, because he puts
his trust in God; he draws near unto
Him, and he is willing to prove Him,
to see whether He will not open the
windows of heaven and pour out blessings upon him that he shall not have
room to contain them. Let every man
who has received the Gospel of Jesus
Christ receive this saying, and hearken
to these words, for all they are worth.
Some men may esteem them lightly,
and those who do will, without doubt,
fail to draw near, they will neglect to
prove the Lord, they will not fulfill the
commandments that He has given, and
they will never know that God tells
the truth, and that He is able to fulfill His word and promise unto His
people when they are willing to obey
and keep His law. While they who
appreciate these promises, who obey
these laws that were given anciently,
and have been renewed again in the
dispensation of the fullness of times,
for the blessing of the people, for the
building up of Zion, for the feeding of
the widow and the orphan, for the
spreading of the Gospel of Christ to
the nations of the earth, and for the
gathering of the people from the four
quarters of the earth, those who hearken to these words, prize them as the
truth, and apply them in their practice throughout their lives, will come
to know that God is a rewarder of
those who diligently serve Him, and
that He is able to fulfill His promises
unto them.
A short time ago I met with a
brothei*—I need not call his name, for
he is but one among thousands who
can bear the same testimony that he
bore, and he bears that testimony not
only by the word of mouth but by the
evidences of thrift, of prosperity, of
progress and of improvement which
surround him in the midst of the
deserts, this season he has gathered
in rich harvests, his farms having produced in abundance, while the farms
of many of his neighbors are clogged
with weeds, and their harvests have
been only one-half or one-third what
his has been. How do you account
for it? I account for it in the fact
that God has blessed him, and so does
he, for he is an intelligent man, a man
that not only labors wisely and prudently, but in the fear of God, and in
the desire of his heart to obey His
laws. Said he to me and my companion with whom we were travelling:
"God has blessed me because I have
striven to keep His laws, and because
I have been true to my family." He
went out there upon the desert seven
or eight years ago, impoverished by
persecution and exile, being driven
from his home and from his affairs,
compelled to wander in exile for
years, part of the time preaching the
Gospel. He returned seven or eight
years ago, and settled down upon the
desert. Today, out of the earth, the
burning sands, he has produced beautiful homes, he has fruitful fields,
which are spread out before the eyes
of any man who wishes to go and look
upon them. He pays his tithing, he remembers his offerings, he is obedient
to the laws of God, and he is not
afraid to bear testimony to his friends
and neighbors that it is through his
obedience that God has blessed and
prospered him, and made him what he
is today. He is not the only one,
there are others that are prospered in
like manner. And I testify it is because God has blessed him, and his
soil, and his labors, and has given him
the increase, securing to him the blessings for which he sought and labored.
He has acted in good faith with the
Lord, the Lord has known his heart,
and has blessed him accordingly, and
he is prosperous today in that desert,
while as to many of his neighbors—go

and look for yourselves at their broad
acres. They tell the story for themselves. His lands are clear from noxious weeds, because he has labored,
and taken care of his lands, and that
by his industry and intelligent application of labor, showing that God
has inspired him, and enlightened his
mind. The Lord has blessed him in
his basket and in his store, in his labors and in the thoughts of his mind,
he has been inspired and enabled to
accomplish the work that he has done;
I testify that it is because of man's
. faith in the promises of the Lord, and
his desire to obey His laws, that he is
blessed and prospered of Him.
I have been blessed. I have been prospered. I might have been more faithful,
and I might have been more greatly
blessed. But the Lord has blessed me
insomuch that I have not lacked for
anything that was needful for my welfare. I have not had luxury, nor
"rolled in wealth," but God has fed
and clothed me, with all of mine, and
He has given us health and strength of
body. And yet we might have done
our duty better and been entitled to
greater blesings, no doubt. I aim to
pay my tithing. Now there is no use
of my saying this unless it be true,
because the evidences are there in the
books. If I say I pay my tithing when
I do not, Brother Heber J. Grant or
some of the brethren who look after
these things, men of figures, would go
to the books,and they would say, "You
said you pay your tithing, but you do
not. We know just about what your
income is, and here is what the books
say." So I would stand condemned
at once if I were to say to you that I
paid my tithing when I did not pay my
tithing, because not only the Lord
would know I had not done it, but my
brethren would know also that I had
not done it, because the books show
exactly what I have paid. No matter
about that, the fact is this, I believe
what I preach, and I do not preach
that which I do not believe. I am
not here for that purpose. I have not
been called to that mission, or for that
business. I preach that which I believe and that which I do know to be
true; and I do know that if men will
obey the laws of God, God will honor
and bless them. I have proven it
all my life through. I saw it manifested in circumstances which occurred
in my childhood, and I know that God
has blessed the widow and the fatherless when they have been obedient to
His laws and have kept His commandments.
I can tell you the history of a widow
woman, with a large family, who was
more particular,if possible,to pay to the
Lord what belonged to Him than she
was to pay to her neighbors to whom
she might be indebted, and she never
was indebted to her neighbors, thank
God, for anything that she did not pay
to the last cent, because th'? Lord
blessed her with plenty, and in her
latter years she did not have to borrow of her neighbors, nor did she have
to call upon the Church for support
either, but she paid thousands of dollars in products and money into the
storehouse of the Lord, although she
was a widow with a large family to
support. I know this. I can testify
of this, and that the Lord Almighty
blessed her, not only in the products
of her fields, but in her flocks and
herds. They were not devoured. They
were not destroyed. They did not lie
down and die. They increased. They
did not stray away; and thieves did not
steal them. One reason for that was,
she had a little boy that watched them
very carefully under her direction, and
prompting. Her eye was upon everything, she had supervision over everything, she directed those whom she
employed, and her children; and I am
a witness—and here sits another witness [Patriarch John Smith]—that
God, the Eternal Father, blessed her
and prospered her while she lived,and
she was not only enabled to maintain
herself and children that were left to
her in poverty, in a day of trial, and
when she was driven out into the wilderness, but she was able to feed
scores of the poor, and to pay her
tithes besides. "Verily the Lord prospered her, and she was blessed. I remember one time when that same
widow went to the tithing storehouse
in this city with a load of potatoes in
the spring—they had been kept over
winter. And one of the tithing office
clerks said to her, "Widow , T
don't see any use of your having to
pay tithing; you ought not to pay

tithing. You ought to keep what you
have." She said to him, "William, you
don't know what you are talking
about. I pay my tithing that I may
be blessed." "Would you deprive me,"
she said, "of a blessing?" "No," he
said, "I would have you keep your
tithing and bless yourself with it."
Said he, "There are a number of ablebodied people here that are well qualified to work and produce their living,
but they are living from the tithing,
and I don't see that a widow should be
required to pay her tithing to feed
those that are not working for it."
Now these are about the words of this
man, who was employed at the tithing
office. But "no," said the widow, "I
propose to pay my dues to the Lord;
I propose to pay my tithing, and any
man that would prevent me from doing this would deprive me of a blessing." Where is that man and his family today? He apostatized. He didn't
last long in the Church. He turned
away, and went back to the east somewhere and took his family with him.
He probably long since has gone to his
rest. And not one of his family is in
the Church. I bear testimony of these
things because I know what I am
talking about. I want to tell you a
little more: While this widow was
paying her tithing and being blessed,
there was a little boy who really
thought that tithing office clerk was
about right. That widow's boys had
to work very hard, and they knew how
those potatoes were raised. They knew
how the corn and other grain ^was
raised, they knew what it was to lake
care of the sheep, and the horses and
the cows that were tithed, and all
about it. They knew how it was done,
for they had it to do. And one of the
little boys of that widow thought that
clerk was more than two-thirds right
about it. By and by the widow died,
but she left very comfortable property
for her children, dug out of the desert
here: the children were young,
and I confess to you that they
were not as faithful in paying their
tithes and their offerings as their
mother was; they had lost their
mother, and what was the result? In
a few years, everything that she left
them had gone to rack and ruin. That
was the result. The cattle were turned
out upon the range, and that was the
last they ever saw of them. The
neighbors' cattle broke into the fields
and destroyed the crops, and they did
not reap the harvests they had done
before; and it was only a few years
after the death of the widow when the
children had not much to show for
what was left them, and it was not
until they became old enough to appreciate the truth, and to commence
to obey the laws of God and keep His
commandments, that the Lord began
to bless them again, to build them up,
to increase their substance, and to give
them what was necessary for their
good. And as they have obeyed the
commandments of God, the Lord has
blessed them. He will continue to do
it while time endures, if they continue
faithful; and throughout the countless
ages of eternity they will reap the reward of fidelity to the cause of truth
and to the laws of God; and so will
all the people of Israel. I testify of
this to you in the name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.



