Elder Matthias F. Cowley

My brethren and sisters, I feel very week on this occasion and I do not know how to express myself. But I accept of the call with the same feeling that I have always accepted of the calls made of me by the authorities of this Church. I am in full sympathy with the organization of the Holy Priesthood, and every sentiment which has been expressed at this Conference find a cheerful and a complete response in my heart. I am grateful to the Lord for the testimony which He has given unto me in my youth concerning the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the work which he was instrumental in the hands of God in establishing upon the earth. I know that it is true. I am grateful for this witness, and I trust that I shall be able, by the hlep of the Lord and by your faith and prayers, by brethre and sisters-for I ask them, and I need them, to be able to show my appreciation of the truth and the work in which we are engaged by my course in life. I recognize the fact that there is no amount of prefessin or pretension which satisfies the injusction of the Gospel and that which goes to constitute the characteristics of a true Latter-day Saint. It requires that we shall square our lives by the precepts of the Gospel and the commandments which have been delivered unto us by the authority of God in this despensation.

I do not know that I need to occupy more of your time, my brethren and sisters. I feel weak and humble; indeed, I feel unworthy; for I know myself better than my friends know me, and I canot express my feelings on this occasion. But I will endeavor to do my duty, by the help of the Lord. I will endeavor to keep the counsel of the servants of God, and to obey the requirements that are made of me from time to time, bu the servants of God that are appointed to preside in the church of Christ in this dispensation. I kow that these mend are Prophets of the living God. And I know this day that a prophecy has been fulfilled which was uttered by Apostle John W. Taylor many years ago.

My God bless you, my brethren and sisters, and all Israel, and enable us to accept, not only in sentiment and theory, but in actual practice, all the counsel that is given unto us bearing upon the duties which the Gospel enjoins upon the Ltter-day Saints; and if we do this I know that god will bless us and sustain us as his people, and no power will prevail against this work. May God bless you, and may I have your faith and prayers in my calling. I humbly ask it, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.