PREST. 'WILFORD WOODRUFF.
OPENING REMARKS.
I thank God my Heavenly Father
that I have again the privilege of
meeting with the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
capacity of a Semi-Annual Conference.
This is our Sixty-eighth Semi-Annual
Conference. We have passed through
a great variety of history from the
organization of the Church until the
present day. I trust that while we
are assembled together during this
Conference the Spirit of God may be
with us, and with the Apostles and
Elders who are called upon to speak
to us', that we may be edified by the
principles of the Gospel of Jesus
Christ, the Son of God, and be prepared for that work which still rests
upon us to carry out. We have a
great work upon our hands. It has
been a labor from the organization of
the Church until the present time. We
have the world to preach to. That is
one of the duties God requires at the
hands of the Elders of Israel. We are
held responsible for this work and the
building up of the kingdom of God according to the best light and knowledge and revelation which God has
given unto us. We ought to be thankful
to the Lord for His mercies unto us.
I feel as though His hand has beer
visible in the establishing of His
Church here in the Rocky Mountains,
from our first arrival as Pioneers in
the valleys of the mountains, when
we found a barren desert, until the

present. The hand of the Lord has
been with this people and with the
Elders of Israel, and will continue to
be. The Lord is in earnest, in fulfillment of His promises from the creation of the world down to this day,
with regard to His dispensations to
man. I hope and trust that while we
dwell in the flesh we all may realize
and understand this. It is a great
blessing to receive the Gospel of
Christ, to receive the Holy Priesthood,
and to be called to labor in the Priesthood for the salvation of the children
of men. This labor is upon us and will
remain upon us until the coming of
the Son of Man in the clouds of
heaven, to reward every man according to the deeds done in the body.
I pray God to bless you and to pour
out His Spirit upon us all, that while
we are assembled together in this capacity we may have union of heart
and spirit, and the Spirit of God resting upon us, to dictate and direct us
in our labors. Amen.