PREST. WILFORD kWOODRUFF
The Written Word—Joseph and Brlgham In Klrtland—Present Inspiration.
There are a few moments I would
like to spend in talking upon one particular point that has been spoken
about today. Brother Brigham has referred to it, and our brethren this forenoon alluded to it. It is in regard to
the written word of God and the living
oracles. Perhaps you may think that
Brother Woodruff is hardly a suitable
man to speak upon this subject, seeing
he is President of the Church, but I
think you will find I am when I get
through. I will refer to a certain
meeting I attended in the town of
Kirtland in my early days. At that
meeting some remarks were made that
have been made here today, with regard to the living oracles and with regard to the written word of God. The
same principle was presented, although not as extensively as it has
been here, when a leading man in the
Church got up and talked upon the
subject, and said: "You have got the
word of God before you here in the
Bible, Book of Mormon, and Doctrine
and Covenants; you have the written
word of God, and you who give revelations should give revelations according to those books, as what is written
in those books is the word of God. "We
should confine ourselves to them."
When he concluded, Brother Joseph
turned to Brother Brigham Young and
said, "Brother Brigham I want you
to take the stand and tell us your
views with regard to the written
oracles and the written word of God."
Brother Brigham took the stand, and
he took the Bible, and laid it down;
he took the Book of Mormon, and laid
it down; and he took the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and laid it down
before him, and he said: "There
is the written word of God
to us, concerning the work
of God from the beginning of the
world, almost, to our day." "And now,"
said he, "when compared with the
living oracles those books are nothing
to me; those books do not convey the
word of God direct to us now, as do
the words of a Prophet or a man bearing the Holy Priesthood in our day and
generation. I would rather have the
living oracles than all the

writing in the books." That
was the course he pursued. When
he was through, Brother Joseph
said to the congregation: "Brother
Brigham has told you the word
of the Lord, and he has told you
the truth."
And now, I wanted to speak a word
Apostle or leading man of the Church
upon this subject. Whenever the Lord
requires any Prophet, Seer, Revelator,
to speak, the Spirit of the Lord is with
him to give counsel to the people from
time to time as he is moved upon, and
such as the people ought to hear. But
I want you to understand this one
thing; the Holy Priesthood and power
of God do not stop there; it does not
stop with the Presidency, it does not
stop with the Twelve Apostles, it does
not stop with our leading men of
Israel ;—there is not a man on God's
footstool that is sent forth into the
world to preach the Gospel but ought
to have the Spirit of the Lord upon
him and the revelation of God to
him. And by that power these valleys
of the mountains have been filled with
the inhabitants of the world today;
by that power this Tabernacle has
been built; by that power have th&
Elders, from the organization of this
Church until today, performed their
work. There is no end to the Holy
Ghost and the power of God and the
revelations of God to man. This is our
position today before the world. Every
man should have the Holy Priesthood
with him, of some kind or other, when
he goes to preach the Gospel; he
should occupy some position of that
kind. The Holy Ghost should be with
that man. The Holy Ghost is with that
man, revelation is with that man, if he
lives his religion and does his
duty before God.
I have before me the Twelve
Apostles who were boys—wno were
young men when they were thrust into
the vineyard—in their boyhood, as it
were, when they went forth to the
islands of the sea and the nations of
the earth, and they have done that
work in their young days by the inspiration and the power of God, and
He will be with them until the end.
We should all understand this. The
Bible is all right, the Book of Mormon
is all right, the Doctrine and Covenants
is all right, and they proclaim the
work of God and the word of God in?,
the earth in this day and generation:
until the coming of the Son of Man;
but the Holy Priesthood is not con--
fined particularly to those books, that
is, it did not cease when those books
were made. It belongs to every man
that goes forth into the world,and these
are our principles, and these are our
rights, and these are our duties, and
these are our gifts. The Holy Ghost is
not confined to any one man, but every
one should have it. As the Lord said
to Orson Hyde and the brethren with
him, that were going to preach the
Gospel: "Go forth and speak as you
are moved upon by the Holy Ghost,
and when you speak as you are moved
upon by the Holy Ghost, that is the
word of the Lord, that is the mind of
the Lord, that is His Spirit, that is
the power of God unto salvation to
everyone that believes."
Well, I felt I wanted to name this
in this connection. This subject has
been brought up so strongly here today, I felt I wanted to bear my testimony of these things. God bless you.
Amen.

