ELDER C. D. FJELSTED.
The Lord has led His people—Christ's promise has
been fulfilled.
I do not know if I shall be able to
speak loud enough for such a large
congregation. My voice is not very
strong.but I feel thankful to our Heavenly Father that we have this great
opportunity of meeting together in a
Conference, to have the privilege to
sit and listen to inspired men that are
full of wisdom and good counsel to
us. We can certainly say we have had
quite a feast during this Conference,
and I for my part feel to thank God,
the Eternal Father, that we have a
living Priesthood amongst us, to direct
and to guide us and to bless us; and
there are no people that I know of
on the whole earth that ought to be
as grateful to our Heavenly Father
for His blessings as we ought to be.
The doctrines that we have listened to
are of an excellent character, and we
know they are from God, and I wish
that we all carried them out that it
might please the Lord to bless us still
more. His hand has been over this
people. He has led us unto this day,
and we have confidence that He will
continue to lead this people and that
we will be able to help to build up
the work of God. We can say surely
the testimony that was promised to
us and to everybody by the Savior
when He was here has been
realized. He said anyone and
everyone that will do the will
of my Father shall know if
this is the work of God or not. We
can testify by receiving this Gospel
that we have received that testimony,
that this is the work of God and not
of man, and therefore I say we ought
to be the best people on the whole
earth; that we are called upon to be
Saints; and that the Lord has given
us the testimony that this is His work;
and I say, Lord bless all Thy servants,
Lord bless all who take an active part
in building up the work of God, that
they may be prospered in the land, and
that the plans of the Wicked One to
overthrow this work may fall to the
ground, and that the kingdom of God
may be built up and that His blessings
may follow the people. This is my
prayer and desire in the name of Jesus. Amen.