ELDER ABRAHAM OWEN WOODRUFF.
My brethren and sisters, I feel very
weak in attempting to express myself
on this occasion, and I pray that the
blessings of God may rest upon me,
that I may enjoy your sympathy, while
I seek to do so. Though I have not
placed myself in this position, I have
no doubt as to the inspiration of those
men who have called me; and in occupying it I realize that I am not called
to a position above the people, but to
be one of them and a servant of the
people of God. I feel that this is my
mission. As Brother Cowley says that
this day a prophecy was fulfilled
which was uttered some years ago by
one of the Apostles present today, I
can indeed say the same as being fulfilled in my case. My father intimated
as much to me something over three
years ago, while I was upon a mission
to Switzerland, Germany and Austria,
although I have never mentioned this
matter to a living soul. He told me
that that was the mind and will of
God concerning me at that time. T
have sought to overcome my weaknesses; and in standing before you I
realize that I stand before my God,
stripped of everything which will hide
any of the deeds of my life, and realize that I appear in His eyes in a
different light to what I appear in
your eyes. I realize that I have had
weaknesses, but God knows that I
have sought with all my heart to
overcome them and to fit and prepare
myself for any call which He might
make of me. It will be the pleasure of
my life, and my greatest object and
desire, to be your servant, and to assist in building up Zion. I believe
that Jesus is the Christ, and that there
is a living God. I have been placed in
circumstances in my short life where
I have had to prove this to be the
case or to prove that belief in God was
a deception. I also believe that Joseph
Smith was a true, inspired servant or
the living God, and that the principles which were revealed through him,
of faith in God, of repentance, of baptism, of the laying on of hands for the
reception of the Holy Ghost, and the
other principles connected with this
Gospel, are of God and are necessary
to salvation. I believe that the organization that existed in the primitive
church exists in this Church today;
that we have the living oracles of God,
and that these men who have been
called to these positions are inspired
servants of God. My Father in
Heaven is a witness that I have never
sought or desired any prominence in
this world, but have rather desired to
lead a quiet life, thinking myself not
worthy to be anything but the least
in the kingdom of God. And I know
not why I should have been called to
this position, were it not that I am
the least, or have cause to be the most
humble among you all.
May God help me, and give me
strength to do what is right and to
discharge my duties, and be true to
the confidence which my brethren have
placed in me, and which you place in
me upon this occasion. This is my
greatest desire, and that I may be
true and faithful, and useful in doing
good, proclaiming the word of God,
sustaining the authorities of the
Church, and in looking out for your
general welfare. May God give me
this power; and if so, I will covenant
—if He will give me strength, to overcome my weaknesses and to resist the
evil of this world. I do covenant with
you, as I have done with my God and
do now with my God, that I will seek
with all the power which He will give
me and which He has given me, to be
a faithful servant unto you, and to
dedicate my life and all the energies
which God has given me to the building up of His kingdom and to the proclaiming of His word. May God help
me to this end, and help us all to fulfill our duties, is my humble prayer, in
the name of Jesus. Amen.