MATTHIAS F. COWLEYBeneficial character of Mutual Improvement associations—Operation of the Holy Spirit—Reception of blessings predicated upon Obedience
—Secular education does not prevent crime.
My brethren and sisters, in standing
before you a short time, I humbly solicit your faith and prayers, that something appropriate may be suggested to
our minds. I have rejoiced, and do
rejoice, in the instructions of this Conference; and our joy may be said to
consist, through the Holy Spirit, in the
propriety and the practical value of
the teachings imparted unto us
through the servants of the Lord.
I have been highly edified in the remarks directed to the youth. I feel
especially interested in the cause of
Mutual Improvement, because I recognize in it an institution established by
the wisdom of the Lord through His
servant, President Young, affording
the young men and young women of
Zion an opportunity to exercise the
talents with which the Lord has endowed them. And it is a work of great
magnitude. It is necessary, as stated
by President Cannon and Brother
Kimball, that we should study the
Scriptures and become conversant
with the principles of the Gospel, with
the predictions of the Prophets,and the
purposes of theAlmighty concerning us
and mankind at large, and, not only
in the direction of these particulars
which are designated as strictly religious, but to become acquainted with
all good principles. I think it is in section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants
where the injunction is placed upon us
by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph, and it is always binding, that
we should seek for wisdom by study,
out of the best books, by prayer and
also by faith; that we should become
acquainted with the laws of the kingdoms and nations of the earth, and
with the law of the kingdom of God;
should become acquainted with things
which are above the earth and which
are in the earth; we might say, become
informed regarding all things as the
Lord, through various agencies, gives
us opportunities for acquiring knowledge.
What a broad field of study for the
youth of Zion! Would any man with
intelligence and honesty dare to attribute narrow-mindedness to the Latter-day Saints? I think not. The Latter-day Saints are not afraid to come
in contact with the world in every
form. They are not so narrow but
what they are willing to receive truth
wherever it can be found. We recognize the fact that there are fragments
of truth scattered abroad in the earth,

that they have been handed down
among the chldren of men on the pages
of history and by tradition from generation to generation. Many of the
oriental religionists that are designated by the more enlightened as heathen have ideas which are not at variance with some of the principles of the
Gospel. In reading the history of
Mexico, we find statements there regarding traditions of the ancient inhabitants of that land in reference to
the Deity and in regard to the coming
of a God to this earth; and we can see
that it has reference to the mission
of the Son of God among the children
of men. And so in regard to the people
of Asia and other countries of the
globe. The youth of Zion should be
conversant with these things.
There is one grand and glorious principle, that should be understood by
the young people to guide them in
their studies and investigation in regard to all things, and that is, the
possession of the Holy Spirit. No man,
says the Apostle Paul—and it has been
repeated in every Gospel dispensation
—"can understand the things of God
but by the Spirit of God." He may understand the things of man by the
spirit of man; but the Spirit of
God has a mission, as stated by the
Savior in the 16th chapter of St. John,
where he says, "Howbeit, when the
spirit of truth is come, he shall guide
you into all truth, for," he says, "he
shall not speak of himself"—here is
another lesson in that passage: even
the Holy Spirit does not assume authority to speak—"for he shall not
speak of himself, but that which he
heareth, that shall he also speak. He
shall take of the things of the Father
and shall show them unto you," showing that the Spirit of the Lord associates with the Father and the Son,
and communicates the mind and will
of the Lord to the people, who are so
happy and so blessed as to enjoy that
great gift. If we can understand the
things of man by the spirit of man,
we can also understand the things of
man by the Spirit of God, for it
"searcheth all things." How essential
it is that the young men and the young
women of Zion should enjoy the companionship of the Holy Spirit, the importance of which cannot be spoken,
it cannot be fully realized. And to
enjoy that spirit, we should understand
another principle, and that is that to
possess it we must harmonize our lives,
our daily walk and conversation with
certain requirements that the Lord has
made of us. It is one thing to receive
the Holy Spirit; it is another thing to
keep it constantly with us. We received it on condition of faith in God
and in His Son Jesus Christ, and the
condition of repentance from all sin—
a genuine repentance, a laying aside
of the things which are obnoxious to
God. We received it on condition of
accepting the simple ordinance of
baptism in water for the remission of
sin. We received it on condition of
the imposition of hands by men authorized of the Almighty to perform
that sacred ordinance for the gift of
the Holy Ghost. We never can isolate
the principles of the Gospel, and expect
by the mere outward acceptance of
that
_
principle, to enjoy the blessing
which is attached to it. No man has
received a remission of sins by baptism
alone. No man has received the Holy
Ghost by the imposition of hands
alone. There must be associated with
it the fulfillment of the conditions that
belong to these fundamental steps
which introduce us into the Church of
Christ. Simon the sorcerer was baptized by Philip. He went through the
ordinance in form, but the Apostles
Peter and John came down from Jerusalem and laid their hands upon and
baptized the Samaritans; and those
that were penitent only, who had pure
faith in God, pure conviction that Jesus was the Christ, received the Holy
Ghost and enjoyed some of the gifts
thereof; and when Simon the sorcerer
saw that they enjoyed this gift, he
offered the apostles money, and he
said unto them, "Give unto me also
this gift that on whomsoever I lay my
hands they may receive it also." And
the Apostle Peter, by the authority and
power of God which rested upon him,
said unto him: "Thy money perish
with thee, seeing thou hast thought to
buy the gift of God with money. I
perceive that thy soul is in the gall of
bitterness and sin."
So it may be said of all the Latter-day Saints. Men have embraced
the Gospel, that is, in form.
Some have been introduced into the
Church formally, but they have

dropped by the wayside. We found
hundreds of backsliders in the states
of Missouri and Illinois, who had embraced the Gospel, many of them in
the days of Joseph Smith. Some had
received a testimony and sinned
against it and became embittered, while
others had not received it in sincerity
of heart, and they were easily led
aside. I want to impress upon the
youth that to enjoy this Spirit, we
must not only receive it by the ordinances of the Gospel, but we must take
a course in life that we can keep it
constantly with us. The Spirit of the
Lord will not associate with evil in any
form. As quoted by Brother Kimball, the Spirit of the Lord will not
dwell in unclean temples; and the
Apostle Paul felt so impressed with
this that on one occasion he said to
the Corinthian Saints: "Evil communications corrupt good manners,"
and he cautioned them to avoid evil
association, to avoid coming in contact
with the influences that were of the
world. The Savior gave this caution
to his disciples, when He said unto
them, "Beware of the leaven of the
Gentiles." The young people should
understand that the foundation, the
stepping stone to Mutual Improvement
is the reformation of life. If there is
a young man that is guilty of any
habit that is contrary to the injunctions of the Gospel, the first step necessary is to lay that aside. Lay aside
the habit of smoking cigarettes, lay
aside the habit of chewing tobacco,
lay aside the habit of swearing and
profanity, and Sabbath breaking, and
seek unto God in humble prayer for
the enjoyment and the impressions of
the Holy Spirit.
If we will do that, the Lord will preserve us from scepticism and infidelity.
One of the brethren in his remarks
spoke about neglecting to read the
Scriptures and thereby becoming an
easier prey to infidelity. I thought of
my own testimony regarding this
work, that no matter what might be
the skill of the sceptic or the infidel
in his efforts to tear down and destroy
the standards of Christianity that
every young man might feel
as I felt myself, that no
matter what may be their
theory, however plausible may appear
their reasoning, I know that this is the
work of God, regardless of these
things. I know that there is a spirit
and a power associated with what they
denominate Mormonism that is beyond
and above the power and the natural
intelligence of man. I have received
this testimony. But, in addition to
that, my young brethren, we should
become so conversant with the principles of truth, and also with the theories, if necessary, that are advanced
by the world against the true doctrines
of Christ, that we may be able, when
under the influence of the Spirit of God,
to refute them and show their inconsistency by the light of truth.
I have often been impressed with a
few statistics that were published by
President John Morgan, several years
before his decease. He wrote, I think
to the wardens of the penitentiaries at
Detroit, and Joliet, 111., and Sing Sing,
New York, and he asked the question
of the keepers of those government
houses of correction to give him a clear
and truthful statement as to what percentage of the convicts in their respective prisons could read and write; he
also wanted to know what percentage
of them had an understanding of
grammar and rhetoric. "When the
answers came back, if I remember correctly, they showed that there were
fully ninety per cent of all the criminals in those houses of correction that could read and write;
and there were some — I think
seventy-five per cent of them
—that were quite grammatical in their
conversation; a still smaller per cent
that had a very good understanding of
arithmetic and other branches, and
some of them were highly educated. I
remember the statement by President
Morgan that there was a greater percentage of well educated people in the
penitentiary, compared with the whole
of the inmates, than there was outside of the prisons as compared with
the entire population of the United
States. To me this was a great les 1-
son. It was a lesson that impressed
me that the mere education of the intellect is not sufficient. Men may understand astronomy, they may understand mathematics, they may be efficient in the beautiful art of music,they
may be conversant with law and the

science of civil government as it obtains in the nations of the earth, and
at the same time they may be corrupt,
they may be dishonest men, their motives may be impure in the sight of
God.
No man, no matter what may be his
natural attainments, if he does not enjoy the Spirit of the living God, if his
life is not circumspect, squared by the
principles and doctrines .of the Son of
God, is a well educated Latter-day
Saint, he does not enjoy the true light,
he is not a safe man to follow. Another striking thing in the history of
this work is that when men—no matter how prominent they have become
—have ceased to follow in the counsels
of the Prophets of God, or have violated their covenants in any respect,
especially if it has been in a serious
manner, they have ceased to enjoy the
light that comes from the Father.
There is one man spoken of in the
Book of Mormon in connection with
the Prophet Joseph Smith. You know
that Nephi prophesied that of the seed
of Joseph that was sold into Egypt in
the last days, the Lord would raise up a
Prophet whose name should be Joseph,
and his father's name should be Joseph; and he said that this Prophet
Joseph in the last days should not be
mighty in speaking, but he should be
mighty in writing the words of the
Lord, like unto Moses. And he says,
"God will raise up unto him a mouthpiece like unto Aaron." Now by reading the Doctrine and Covenants, we
know who that mouth-piece was. We
know the name of that man that enjoyed so much of the Spirit, during his
faithfulness, that his tongue was eloquent and powerful; but when he
ceased to follow the line of his duty,
when he despised the day of small
things, when he became lifted up in
the pride of his heart, became jealous
of his associate, the Prophet, and began step by step to turn aside from the
course of rectitude whch the Gospel
enjoined upon him, that man lost his
power, lost his influence; he lost his
tongue of eloquence, and went down
into oblivion. I heard, many years
ago, President George Q. Cannon say
that when he was a boy he was present
in Nauvoo when that man stood up before a congregation and sought to lay
his claims before the people to be the
guardian of this Church, and I remember distinctly that President Cannon said, he spoke as he had never
heard him speak before, that is, his
remarks were characterized by weakness, a lack of power and a loss of
what he had previously enjoyed.
These are lessons that ought to be
stamped upon the hearts of the young
men. Such way-marks are scattered
along the path of the history of the
Church from the days of the Prophet
Joseph until the present time.
It is a testimony of the divine authenticity of this work, that no man
has a monopoly on the mercy of God.
He may be ever so great in the eyes of
the people, he may be ever so prominent in his position in the Holy Priesthood, but he must comply with the
conditions, as every man and woman
in this Church must do, in order to
retain the blessing and the favor of
God. No man has a monopoly on the
work of God. No man can sin with
impunity. No man can turn aside
from the path of rectitude, without
meeting the consequences which are
specified in the Gospel of our Lord and
Savior. So, my young brethren, remember this, that while men may become educated in the world, they may
become powerful physically, they may
become powerful mentally, but until
they are educated spiritually and the
moral properties of their natures are
reached and touched and cultivated,
the soul is not educated, for "the spirit
and the body is the soul of man." It
is not complete without, and God has
provided that in this Church, and in
the glorious plan of salvation, the entire soul shall be educated in the ways
of truth, and in the knowledge of
things that are good and elevating in
the sight of God. Remember, therefore, that we should cultivate the
Spirit of the Lord in our hearts, and
keep it ever as our constant guide. Lay
aside everything that would grieve
that Spirit, listen to the counsel of the
servants of God, heed the warning
voice which they have given unto us;
and then I testify unto you, that the
doctrines of this Church as stated by
the Lord to Joseph, the Prophet, will
be distilled upon your minds as the
dews from heaven, and you will be

proof against scepticism and infidelity; and the day will come when the
sons and daughters of Zion shall grow
up without sin unto salvation. God
bless you. Amen.

