ELDER FRANCIS M. LYMAN.
Sacred ground.—Maintaining Eepentance.—Tenderness of heart.—Moslah's teachings. — God
never fails.
Twenty-five minutes will not be a
very long practice at the mark
straight ahead of us, but I will endeavor to talk straight, with the
help of the Lord and with the help of
your faith and prayers, my brethren
and sisters, and trust that something
may be said that will be profitable to
us.
While listening to the brethren today, I have thought of this sacred
spot, this building, this sacred ground
where the Latter-day Saints are wont
to assembl? twice a year from all over
the Church, coming here to listen to
the living oracles, the men who have
been chosen by the Lord, upon whose
shoulders rests the responsibility of
this Church and this work which the
Lord has established, and O, what a
sacred spot this is destined to be!
When I think of the great designer
of this building, President Young, and
his brethren who have occupied the
stand, the pulpit here, and how freely
the word of the Lord has come to the
people by the inspiration of the Almighty, words of wisdom, words of
intelligence, words fraught with the
power of God, I think what wonderful
occasions have been in this building!
How we have rejoiced together, and
how we have been fed and stimulated to go forth from this central
spot to our various fields of labor, to
serve the Lord anew, to renew our energies, our covenants and obligations
to the Lord and to more faithfully
keep His commandments, that we
may make good our great undertaking; to repent of our sins and to obtain forgiveness; to make a repentance genuine and eternal; for I am
brought to believe that it is possible
for men to repent and then to unrepent, and to fail to keep their repentance good; and I believe that the victory is in retaining our repentance
and making it good, so that the Spirit
of the Lord may dwell richly with us.
I believe that it has been a fault with
the Latter-day Saints, with us all,
perhops. without exception, that we
have not properly maintained our repentance and kept it good; that we
have, after we have embraced the
Gospel and have received baptism
properly, slackened our course; that
we have become careless; that we
have not maintained the broken heart
and the contrite spirit,for be it known,
it is necessary that men should havo
the broken heart, the tender and soft
heart, and the contrite spirit, or they
are not worthy of that great ordinance
of baptism of water and of fire and of
the Holy Ghost. And when we have
reached this point, that we have complied with the revelation which is so
clear and pointed, so definite that no
one can mistake, I believe that that
same condition must be maintained.
I believe that my heart should be as
tender today as it ever was. I cannot
afford to be hard-hearted, I cannot
afford to be stubborn, I cannot afford
to be haughty and high-minded; but T
must be contrite in spirit and my
heart broken and tender, for the
Lord has prescribed that all those who
humble themselves before God and desire to be baptized should come forth
with broken hearts and contrite
spirits, and witness before the
Church that they have truly repented
of their sins and are willing to take
upon them the name of Jesus Christ,
having a determination to serve Him
to the end. He says: "All who truly
manifest by their works that thej
T
have received of the Spirit of Christ
unto the remission of their sins shall
be received by baptism into this
Church." I take it that this re tuirement is necessary to entitle us to baptism into this Church, and no person is
entitled to baptism who comes not to
that condition. And if it be necessary
that that condition is reached, or
shall be reached, by those who would
be baptized into this Church and have
their sins washed away.to entitle them
to receive the Holy Ghost, I bolieve
that it is necessary also that that repentance and that broken heart and

that contrite spirit and those good
works before the Church, should be
continued, and manifested to the end
of life, if we would have the blessing
of eternal life. King Benjamin, in
talking to his people, in the fourth
chapter of Mosiah (Book of Mormon),
says
:
"And again I say unto you, as I
have said before, that as ye have come
to the knowledge of the glory of God,
or if ye have known of His goodness,
and have tasted of His love, and have
received a remission of your sins,which
causeth you exceeding great joy in
your souls, even so I would that ye
should remember.and always retain in
remembrance, the greatness of God,
and your own nothingness, and His
goodness and longsuffering toward
you, unworthy creatures, and humble
yourselves, even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the
Lord daily and standing steadfastly in
the faith of that which is to come,
which was spoken by the mouth of
the angel; and behold, I say unto
you, that if ye do this, ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the
love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins; and ye shall
grow in the knowledge of the glory of
Him that created you, or in the
knowledge of that which is just and
true. And ye will not have a mind to
injure one another, but to live peaceably, and to render to every man according to that which is his due."
Further, King Benjamin says, in
this same chapter:
'And now, for the sake of these
things which I have spoken unto you;
that is, for the sake of retaining a remission of your sins from day to Jay,
that ye may walk guiltless before God,
I would that ye should impart cf your
substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such
as feeding the hungry, clothing the
naked, visiting the sick, and administering to their relief, both spiritually
and temporally, according to their
wants And see that all these
things are done in wisdom and
order, for it is not requisite
that a man should run faster
than he has strength. And again: it
is expedient that he should be diligent,
that thereby he might win the prize;
therefore all things must be done in
order. And I would that ye should remember, that whosoever among you
that borroweth from his neighbor,
should return the thing that he
borroweth, according as he doth
agree, or else thou shalt sin, and perhaps thou shalt cause thy nrjigh! or to
commit sin also. And, finally, I cannot
tell you all the things whereby ye
may commit sin; fcr there are divers
ways and means, even so many that
I cannot number them. But this
much I can tell you, that if ye do not
watch yourselves, and your thoughts,
and your words, and your deeds.
and observe the commandments
of God, and continue in the
faith of what ye have heard concerning the coming of our Lord, even
unto the end of your lives, ye must
perish. And now, O man, remember
and perish not."
What great favor we enjoy, my
brethren and sisters, that we have
come to the plan of life, that we have
come to know the way that leads to
life and salvation, to know the Lord,
to become acquainted with Him,
having learned of Him through the
inspiration of the Holy Ghost, to
know that Jesus is the Christ, to
know that He is the Son of God and
the Savior, and that we have been
taught the principles of repentance,
and that we have been brought to understand it and appreciate it! How
important it is, then, that we should
remain faithful, that we should persevere, that we should maintain the
conditions upon which we entered
into this Church. It is not that a certain condition is necessary for us to
come through the door and then that
we may unbend and do as we choose:
but it is important that we should
keep the faith. It is important that
we should keep our hearts broken and
tender, and our spirits contrite, and
meek, and lowly of heart, that we
should remember the Lord day by day,
and that we should honor Him and
keep His commandments and work
righteousness, for we have the power.
The power is in us. The Lord has
given it to us, and the Lord has given
to all men the power to do good and
to honor Him and to keep His commandments. Naturally all men are
endowed with this power from on
high. There is planted in the hearts
of all men that spark of intelligence
and of righteousness from God, and
that perception of the truth known as
the conscience of man. It is a monitor established in the heart of every
man and every woman, by the inspiration of the Almighty. And that
conscience should be kept unsullied.
It should be kept free, uncontaminated, and it should improve, for, under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost,
to which those are entitled who hum-

ble themselves before God, the consciences of men should become so
tender and so susceptible of impressions that they would rebel against
the insinuation of evil, however small
it might be. For the conscience, instead of being "seared with a hot
iron," should be improved, should be
intensified and made stronger and better in the hearts of the Latter-day
Saints, for we are entitled to a superior power and intelligence.
The Holy Ghost, that brings us in
communion with the Father, and that
establishes us as the living oraclesnot alone the Presidency of the
Church, not alone the Apostles, not
alone the officials of the Church generaly,—but I say that the Holy Ghost
in the hearts of the Elders of Israel
makes them the living oracles of God,
and they are entitled to speak by the
inspiration of the Holy Ghost; they
are entitled to know the truth, and
not to be deceived. They are entitled
to be led and counseled as they cannot be led by the written word, as we
heard this morning, and yet no people of the world prize more the
revelations of the Lord that are
written than do the Latter-day
Saints. But it has been the living
oracles of God that produced the written word, and that always must produce the written word—not the written word that produces the living oracles. But the living oracles are those
men whom God has chosen and has
inspired and given responsibility to.
Those are the living oracles of God,
and they are the men that the Lord
sustains and strengthens and preserves, and to whom He reveals His
mind and will. And they labor among
the people, they live among the people,
and they go to the world and preach
the Gospel, advertising the principles of life and salvation
abroad to the world, calling
men to repentance and to reformation. These are the living oracles,
and we should be the living oracles,
and we should keep good the obligations that we are under to the Lord,
and the promises we have made to
Him, for He never fails. Our Heavenly Father has never failed. He cannot
fail. His promises are all good to us.
The failures are upon our part. It
tvus no failure—it has never been a
failure on the part of the Lord, in
the choice of brethren to serve Him
and to bear His responsibility, to bear
His Priesthood and authority among
lien. The failures have been the failAres of men, on account of the weaknesses of men, of human nature. But
where men lean upon the Lord and
trust Him, and are humble and faithful, as all men can be, God always sustains and never deserts them. He
cannot desert them. It is not possible
that a man can fail if he does the will
of God. No man ever did fail in this
work and kingdom if he maintained
his repentance and reformation—if
these are kept good from the beginning
to the finish, no man can fail. Where
men do fail, it is because of their own
faults and of their own weaknesses,
and not the fault of the Father. And
there is no fault or mistake of the
Father in the choice that is made,
and every man who is called to position in this Church is called by the
Father, by revelation, and not otherwise. The mind and will of God is
known on every occasion, and we need
have no fear when the purposes of
the Lord are announced. "When the
design, the rule and the order of the
Church are announced by the Prophet
of God, know all Israel that God hath
said it; and we know He hath spoken.
We know when we hear his voice. We
know His spirit, and we know the
voice of the true shepherd. And this
is my testimony to yon, my brethren
and sisters, today, in regard to this
great work.
And I say these sacred precincts
where the Prophets of God have
dwelt and labored among us all
these years, and where the inspiration
of the Almighty comes as a flood, and
where the will of God is announced to all Israel, should be most
dear to us. What a blessed privilege!
O, if we appreciated it as we ought to
do, this house would never hold the
congregation on any occasion. We
would be crowding the very grounds
about it, as well as the galleries, and
every spot would be filled, if we only
appreciated that God is here, that the
Holy Ghost is here and is with His
servants. How great has been the opportunity and privilege that is granted

to us, and how we ought to appreciate
it, and how we ought to be humble,
how we ought to repent and leave off
every wickedness and evil and iniquity, and how straight we should
walk to the line, keeping the commandments of God, shunning not only
evil but the appearance of evil!
I quite endorse the remarks of
Brother Smith in regard to the sacredness of the Sabbath day. That should
always be observed. We cannot be
too careful in regard to all these
things, and everything, in fact, in life;
and we want to be prepared, my
brethren and sisters, for the coming of
the Son of Man, for His coming is
near; it approaches, and it will be upon us before we know it, and before we
are prepared. Let us then, I say, repent and make our repentance good
from this time henceforth, and say
nothing that would mortify us, or that
would grieve the Spirit of the LoaI, or
make us ashamed.
I pray that the Lord will sustain us.
I pray for President Woodruff, our
great leader, the man whom God has
honored with long life. How his life
has been preserved! And we pray that
he may continue to be preserved and
stand at our head, and be filled with
the power of God. And I pray for
my brethren, the Presidency, the
Twelve, and for the Elders of Israel,
and for all who are in official positions
among the people, at home and abroad.
I pray for those who are laboring, who
have responsibility upon their shoulders, all the brethren and all the sisters,
that God will bless us, and enable us
to do His will, accomplish His purposes, and be worthy of the trust that
He has committed to us, that when we
have finished, we shall be selected as
His jewels, and that it may be said of
us "Well done, good and faithful
servants, enter into the joy of thy
Lord." Amen.

