ELDER GEORGE REYNOLDS.
The wonders wrought by the Saints through the
power of God— Completeness of the keys and
authority of the Priesthood.
It affords me great pleasure this
morning, my brethren and sisters, to
be present with you in this vast congregation, to worship the Lord our
God, to learn of His ways that we
may walk in His paths; and it gives me
still greater, consolation to know that
His people are still led by the Spirit
of divine revelation, that notwithstanding our weaknesses, our shortcomings,
our lack of faith, God is still with us.
He is still guiding His people, and with
me there is not the slightest shadow
of a doubt but what all His holy purposes will be accomplished. I know
that this is the work of God, I know
that He is guiding His people. Of
this I am more satisfied than of any
other fact with which I am acquainted.
I have no fears on this point, for the
Holy Spirit has witnessed from the
beginning, that God is with us, that
this is not the work of man. Had it
not been so, it would have failed long
ago. It would never have brought to
pass the wonderful, the miraculous results, I might say, that we see have
been accomplished by the revelation of
God to Joseph Smith and to His people.
No earthly power could have accomplished what has been done by the
people who belong to the Church of
Jesus Christ. The results are marvelous, not only in the building up of
this commonwealth in these valleys of
the mountains, not only in the preaching of the Gospel to so many of the
nations of the earth, but also in the
indirect results that have followed the
ministry of the servants of God, the
results that have followed materially,
spiritually, intellectually, and in every
way that I can think of.
Our influence in the history of the
world in this century is marked, and
will be still more marked as the centuries roll round; and from a distance
men will be able to perceive what has
been really accomplished by those who
for so long were despised, of whom so
little was thought, and to whose message such a deaf ear was turned by
the greater portion of the peoples of
the world. And I can say, while I
feel my littleness, while I acknowledge
my insufficiency, yet I do greatly rejoice that God has accounted me
worthy to be one of His people, to
be one of the workers with Him in the
great work of the regeneration of
the world, in the fulfillment of His
purposes, and in the bringing about of
that reign of righteousness upon the
earth, when all shall know Him, and
when every man in every place shall
meet a brother and a friend; for I desire to see righteousness brought
about, I desire to see peace established
upon the earth, I desire to see love
abound amongst all the sons and
daughters of Adam. I have no pleasure in iniquity, no pleasure in turmoil,
in rioting; no pleasure in contention;
but I desire to live to see the name of
God glorified, to see the principles of
eternal truth vindicated, to see Israel
become God's first born upon the earth,
and occupy the positon God has intended for His people; and I desire
to see this earth prepared for the coming and reign of the Prince of Peace,
of Jesus, our Redeemer, the Son of
God.
And these things I know will be
brought about, will be accomplished
by the labors and ministry of the servants of God, under the direction of
those who hold the keys of power in
the midst of His people, to whom He
reveals His mind and will. And I am
doubly thankful to know that there
is not one key of the Holy Priesthood,
not one power belonging to God's
kingdom, not one key of authority, not
one principle pertaining to the building
up of righteousness upon the earth,
that God has withheld from His
people, in these the latter days . I

realize that all these things have been
given unto us. There is nothing lacking, but all that is necessary, if we will
obey, to give us power to return into
the presence of God, and to enjoy the
blessings of the celestial kingdom
throughout the eternities to come, are
ours, are with this Church, have been
revealed of God. We have been made
partakers of all these things. There
is nothing wanting. Not one link is
left out. They are all ours if we will
be faithful to God and to His cause;
and this is my testimony, my brethren
and sisters. I know it is true, and I
bear it in the name of the Lord Jesus,
our Redeemer. Amen.



