ELDER GEORGE TEASDALE.
The Doctrine Preached by the Saints the Same as
that which was Taught by Christ.
I am grateful unto God our Eternal
Father for the privilege of attending
this Conference. I think the Latter-day
Saints may congratulate themselves in
the testimony that hath been given unto us, that has relieved us from all
doubt or anxiety concerning our spiritual welfare today or in the future. The
doctrine of the Lord Jesus Christ is
different to anything else. To believe
on the Lord Jesus Christ is to believe
in His doctrine. If we believe in His
doctrine, we believe in the ordinances
of the house of God. "We understand
somewhat concerning our relationship
to our Father in heaven. He taught
His disciples to pray, 'Our Father
which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy
name, Thy kingdom come, Thy will
be done on earth as it is done in
heaven." This is the sentiment of the
Latter-day Saints—those who are
sanctified in Christ Jesus, who have
accepted the doctrine of Jesus Christ,
who worship the living and true God,
who have repented of their sins, who
have been baptized by immersion, by
one having authority, for the remission of their sins, who have been
sanctified in the precious blood of
Christ, which follows the water, and
who have received the witness of the
Spirit in the gift of the Holy Ghost
that was given unto them by the ordinance of the laying on of hands. The
principles that we advocate are the
principles advocated by the Lord
Jesus Christ in His day; and are the
only way to be saved from death, hell
and the grave.
We have our missionaries, in large
numbers, preaching this everlasting
Gospel, who are taking the glad tidings of great joy to the inhabitants of
tbe earth, testifying that God has
again spoken from the heavens, that
He hath restored to the earth His
Church, that He hath living Apostles
and Prophets, Evangelists, Pastors
and Teachers, for the work of the
ministry, and for the edifying of the
body of Christ. We also testify to the
truth of these principles, because in
our experience as individuals we
know that the signs follow the believer; we know that the path of counsel is the path of safety; for whenever
we have followed it we have always
been well satisfied. The ways of God
are not the ways of man, neither are
His thoughts their thoughts; but as the
heavens are above the earth, so are
His thoughts andHis ways above ours.
Men for ages have had the Scriptures.
They have had the dealings of God
with the inhabitants of the earth in
the records that we have. But have
they been enabled to understand the
philosophy of salvation? Have they
been enabled to understand why it
was necessary that all men must repent, and be baptized (immersed) for
the remission of sins? Have they
been enabled to understand why it
was essential that they should be born
of the water and of the spirit, or they
could in no wise inherit the kingdom of
God? These principles are made plain
to us, because the Lord has revealed
them. He has restored His new and
everlasting convenant. He has restored His holy Gospel. We are His
witnesses of this, and we testify that
which we do know, and we bear testimony to that which we have seen and
that which we have felt.
But the world will not receive our testimony. We take the Bible and show
that these principles are in harmony
with those taught by the ancient Apostles. It is no new doctrine. It is
the old doctrine. It is the straight
and narrow path that leads to eternal
life. And we are endeavoring to
train our children and the people to
have faith in God, to trust in the Lord,
to honor Him, to reverence His name,
to love Him, and to keep His holy
commandments. In our Sabbath
schools we show the children what has
been done by faith. In our exhortations to the people we refer them to
what has been accomplished by faith;
believing in God, and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek
Him, believing in His ordinances, and
practicing them, that they may make
their calling and election sure. We are
striving to do this ourselves, simply


because we want a salvation;
we want to be associated with
the Church of the firstborn; we want
to see the kingdom of God established
upon the earth in power, that the
kingdom of heaven may come and the
will of God be done upon the earth as
the angels do the same in the heavens.
I will say to our friends visiting at
this Conference, if you have not heard
this Gospel before, I want to bear
testimony to you that I came out of
the world; that I heard this Gospel in
the world; that I accepted of its principles, and the promises made to me
by those who introduced it to me
have been fulfilled. I know that the
spirit of prophecy exists. I know
that the gift of tongues exists. I
know that the power of God is manifested, when faith is exercised, in the
laying on of hands unto those who are
sick and afflicted, in the anointing with
oil and the prayer of faith. I know
that the signs follow the believer, as
the Lord Jesus Christ promised eighteen hundred years ago. The Lord
has again revealed His will. He taught
His servant Joseph Smith His doctrine
and the necessity of these ordinances of
His house, and has taught the necessity of adding works to our faith.
What would be the use of the Scriptures to us if there were no living men
having authority to officiate in the
ordinances of the house of God. Where
there is no authority of the Priesthood
there cannot be any ordinances, to be
of any effect. You can easily understand that the things of God are not
known by the spirit of man, but by
the Spirit of God; and when the Lord
withdraws His Spirit, and when His
authority is taken from the earth,
then men of wisdom, so-called, change
the ordinances, break the everlasting
covenant, and instead of baptizing by
immersion, that men may be buried
with Christ by baptism, they pour or
sprinkle water upon a child's face and
call that baptism. Now, if the ordinance of baptism that was
given unto us by the Lord
Jesus Christ was being buried
with Christ in baptism, how would it
be possible for us to be justified by
having a little water sprinkled in our
faces when we were little children and
knew nothing about it? So much for
the wisdom of men. No man knoweth
the things of God, except by the Spirit
of God. When they had living Apostles and Prophets, Evangelists, Pastors and Teachers, sent of God for
the work of the ministry, then the
proper ordinance of going down into
the water and coming up out of the
water was performed.
The Lord has taught us these principles today in the revelations that
He has given. He has given us the
ordinance of baptism, the ordinance of
the laying on of hands; and when we
look into the Scriptures we find that
it was just the same eighteen hundred years ago. The Scriptures bear
testimony, or we can quote from the
Scriptures to show the people that it
is no new doctrine. We have a living
testimony, too, in the which we know
that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ,
that there is efficacy in His precious
blood, and that if we walk in the
light as He is in the light we have fellowship with our brethren, and the
blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us
from all sin. We have faith in these
principles, and we honor God. We
manifest it in our works. We are not
teaching false doctrine. We are not
deceiving the people. We are teaching them the truth, and we call upon
all men everywhere to repent and to
come unto God with a broken heart
and a contrite spirit, and worship
Him in the name of Jesus Christ.
If you are honest in your hearts, and
desire to know God, whom to know is
eternal life, He will lead you into His
fold, as he has done us; He will reveal to you the principles of
life and salvation, as He has done to
us; He will give you a living
testimony, as he has given us. We
invite all men to come unto Christ.
We prove our doctrine by the Scriptures. We know that these principles
are true. We know it in our experience and in our associations; we
know it by the signs following the
believer, and we are grateful to God
our Eternal Father, beyond expression,
that we have the privilege of being
called by His name, and we love to do
His will and honor His ordinances.
Every man that has the fellowship of
the Spirit of God loves the ways of
the Lord. He cannot help it, it is so

glorious. The Gospel has been of great
benefit and worth unto me. It redeemed me from the darkness I was
in; it redeemed me from priestcraft,
from superstition and folly, and has
given me the privilege of the glorious
light that shines in Zion. But the
light shineth in darkness, and the
darkness comprehendeth it not. Why
do the people love darkness rather
than light? Because their deeds are
evil. That is the interpretation that
Jesus Christ gave, and I believe it.
Why should we not be united in the
•worship of the living God? Why should
we not be laboring for the building up
of His kingdom? What is the use of
broken cisterns that hold no water?
What is the use of trusting in the wisdom of men, or in the arm of flesh?
Why not trust in the living and true
God? Why not wait upon Him, and
place our faith in Him? Why not
dedicate ourselves unto His kindly
care and protection? I know that He
lives. I know that He hears and answers prayer. I know that He blesses
the administrations of His servants.
How do I know it? Why, in my experience. There is scarcely a day
passes but we have some witness concerning the mercy of God and His
goodness. I have never been enabled to
express my gratitude to my Father in
heaven, and I have always been willing to preach this Gospel, because it
has been such a blessing unto me.
I remember during the time I was
on a mision I published two tracts
—
"The Glad Tidings of Great Joy" and
"The Restoration of the Everlasting
Gospel." What did I do it for? Because this Gospel has been such a benefit and blessing to me that I wanted to
do all that I could to tell my brethren
and sisters of the world everywhere
concerning it. We are the friends of
mankind. We have shown it by
taking our lives in our hands
over and over again to teach
them the truth. We plead with
them to be reconciled with God, and
to embrace these glorious principles.
I was trained in the scriptures. The
people say that we do not believe in
the Bible. If that be the case there
are no people on the earth that do believe in the Bible. We do believe in it,
and we believe in the doctrines of
Christ. It was a simple tract that
came into my hand—The Only Way to
be Save*, by Apostle Lorenzo Snow—
and then afterwards the Voice of
Warning, that caused me to reflect
and brought me to associate with this
people and to wait upon the Lord. It
aroused the spirit of faith in me.
Now, my beloved brethren and sisters, let me say unto you, as the
Apostle said of old, have faith in God;
for without faith it is impossible to
please Him. This is what the Lord
requires of us. He will be enquired after. As far as salvation is concerned,
it is between the individual and God,
between the child and the Father.
He is our Father in heaven. We entreat you to put yourselves in harmony with Him; humble yourselves
before Him and cry unto Him as a repentant sinner, and ask Him for light
and truth. He will not deceive you,
and truth. He will give it you. He
will not deceive you, but guide you in
the strait and narrow path which leads
to everlasting life.
I bear my testimony concerning the
Presidency and the Apostles, with
whom I have been associated for some
time. I know that they are men of
God. I know that they labor for the
establishment of the righteousness of
God upon the earth. I know that they
are men called of God. I have had their
hands on my head, and they have
predicted concerning me, when I have
been sent on missions, and I know
that they had the spirit cf prophecy,
because those predictions were fulfilled. Then in my associations with
them in the work of the Lord. I
know that they are men of God; and I
know that the Latter-day Saints who
are living their religion are the happiest people on the face of the earth, and
the Lord blesses them and gives unto
them the righteous desires of their
hearts. I am grateful unto God for
this privilege that I have of bearing
my testimony this morning in this
Conference, and I pray that we may
be kind to each other, that we may
love God and keep His commandments,
that when we shall have finished our
probation upon the earth, we may enter into His glorious rest, through
Jesus Christ. Amen.


