ELDER J. D. T. McALLISTER.
I have heard with pleasure the remarks of our brethren who have ministered unto us in this Conference. 1
have been mellowed in my feelings,
and the Spirit of the Lord has been
made manifest. I have been especially
interested and edified this morning in
hearing our young brethren who have
been called to the Apostleship. Their
words to me were like living fire, to the
young and rising generation, and they
are true before the Lord, and should
be listened to, not only by our young
people but by those also who are furthen advanced in life. We are here to
do the Father's will. We are here to
promote His cause. We are here to
help mankind, and get them above the
groveling ways that they
have fallen into, and cause
their minds and all that
is within them to soar aloft and to
receive more of that life that reaches
into immortality, eternal life, and to
enjoy the full blessings of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ and the ordinances of
the house of God, for therein we have
blessings for this life and the life to
come. Therein we learn of His ways,
we learn to walk in His paths. We
receive that power and blessing, and
the keys that are necessary to enable us to understand and comprehend
His will, His mind, and His word.
To do this, we listen to the sweet
whisperings of His Spirit, to the counsels of His servants who are ministering in the authority of the holy Priesthood. I honor these men, because they
honor God, and He honors them, because of their faithfulness and their
diligence, untiring in their work and
labor, ministering day and night for
the good of this people. I feel to cherish them and hold them up before God,
our Eternal Father, that His choice
blessings may be upon them continually. It warms and cheers my heart
to see our venerable President here
with us, and so well; and I have seen
him so sick, and almost near to death,
raised up by the power of God and
the good acts of his brethren. I am
getting along a little bit in years. I
have seen the travails of these men
and their sacrifices for the good of this
people, and I feel to bless them. I feel
that within me which says, God bless
these men, and if you so desire, say
amen. (General response by the audience of Amen). That is the way I
feel about it. Peace be unto you and to
all Israel, to all who love the truth,
in the name of Jesus. Amen.