PRESIDENT GEORGE Q. CANNON
Mission of the Saints—How Satan will be bound
—
Approaching Judgments—Wickedness of the
world— Cleansing process in progress—Who are
the children of God?—The Spirit of Revelation
with the Church—Return of the Ten Tribes.
The hopes and anticipations of the
Latter-day Saints are probably different from those of any other people
in Christendom, if not in the world.
We are looking forward, as Elder Penrose has said, to the time when primitive conditions will be restored; when
we shall have paradise on earth, when
Eden will be restored to the earth,
when Satan will be bound, when a
reign of righteouness will be ushered
in, when sin will be banished from the
face of the earth, when what has
been termed Millennial glory will be
ushered in. We anticipate that this
will be brought about not entirely by
the Lord's intervention, but by man,
directed by the Lord, laboring to accomplish these results. I do not know
any other people on the face of the
earth who indulge in these anticipations, or who expect these results to
be brought about in the manner in
which we do. It is generally thought
that this will be done by the manifestation of God's power, independent
almost of human agency and effort;
but we have been taught that we are
the children of God, and that He works
out His results by aiding His children,
teaching them, and having them exercise their agency in the direction that
He points out. This being the case,
we should take to heart the instructions we have received, and realize that the Lord has given unto us
a mission, and that we are called upon
to exert our utmost abilities to accomplish the ends that have been
predicted. I think if all of us would
do this, and feel that the accomplishment of these results depends upon us,
individually as well as collectively, it
would have the effect to stimulate us
and to stir us up to great diligence.
I believe that those of us who will not
labor to accomplish these ends will be
removed from the midst of the Latter-day Saints. I do not believe that
people can stay in this Church, as the
end approaches, and remain inactive,
indolent, indifferent, and sinful. God
has called us to do this work; and
when He calls men, as we have seen,
to go on missions to accomplish certain results in the preaching of the
Gospel, if they do not labor in that
mission as they should do, He takes
His Spirit from them. So also, having this great mission assigned to us,
and it being made incumbent upon us,
and having received charge concerning it, if we do not seek to accomplish
that mission, the Lord will withdraw
His Holy Spirit from us. He will not
permit us to go on and live lives of
indifference and sinfulness in regard to
His work. It is individual salvation
that is to be accomplished. If I am
saved, and if Satan is bound as .far
as I am concerned, it must be by my
doing that which God requires at my
hands. God will not take away from
me my agency. If I am determined to
listen to Satan and to be influenced by
his spirit, He will suffer me, in the
exercise of my agency, to do that.
But I must take the consequences of
thus doing. We see that illustrated in
the history of Abel and Cain. Cain'
loved Satan more than God and he
listened to him; he became the servant
of Satan, to the extent of doing that
which he required of him. Now, he
could have done otherwise; he could

have done as Abel did; but he chose
to do differently, and he had to endure
the consequences of his conduct.
We talk about Satan being bound.
Satan will be bound by the power of
God; but he will be bound also by the
determination of the people of God
not to listen to him, not to be governed by him. The Lord will not bind
him and take his power from the earth
while there are men and women willing to be governed by him. That is
contrary to the plan of salvation. To
deprive men of their agency is contrary to the purposes of our God.
There was a time on this continent,
of which we have an account, when
the people were so righteous that
Satan did not have power among them.
Nearly four generations passed away
in righteousness. They lived in purity,
and died without sin. That was
through their refusal to yield to Satan.
It is not recorded that Satan had no
power in other parts of the earth
daring that period. According to all
history that we have in our possession, Satan had the same power over
men who were willing to listen to
him. But in this land he did not have
power, and he was literally bound. I
believe that this will be the case in the
millennium; and 1 reason upon it
as I do upon that happy condition
that is described in the record of
which I speak. I expect that before
Satan is fully bound the wicked will
be destroyed. You are familiar with the
history which the Book of Mormon
gives of that period. There was a
great destruction among the people.
The Lord visited them in a most terrible manner. Dreadful calamities fell
upon them, and the wicked were literally wiped out, just as much as the
antedeluvian world was wiped out by
the flood. That wicked generation
was completely extirpated, and those
only were left who were righteous. I
look forward to the same kind of
destructions preceding the glorious
events that will take place in the near
future. The earth will be visited by
fire. President Smith yesterday told
us that "he that is tithed shall not be
burned (at His coming.") I believe that
there will be literal fire come upon the
earth, and calamities and destructions of so universal a character that
the earth will be burned, so to speak,
so that there will be but few men
left. If the covering could be taken
off our city, and of the cities of the
world—I would not compare our city
to many; but even if it were taken off
our city, we who are here today would
be appalled at the sight. The abominations and secret wickedness that are
practiced among the nations are intruding themselves among us. Unspeakable practices are creeping in.
They are varied in character. If we
spoke of them at all, we would have to
disguise their abominable character.
In our own nation, and in the nations of the earth, there is a condition
of things that, if we knew of it,
would appall us. Let me allude to one
instance.
In England a short time ago a man
who had posed in society as a man of
culture and of taste, and who lectured
upon esthetics, was found to be guilty
of a most abominable crime—a crime
for which under the old law the penalty was death; a crime which was
practiced by the nations of old, and
caused God to command their destruction and extirpation. This crime was
proved against this man, and some of
his associates were what are called
noblemen. He was sent to prison. His
term of imprisonment having expired,
he comes from prison, and is now engaged, it is so published, in writing a
book, and, we suppose is received
into society, though guilty of this
nameless crime. And is this common?
If we may believe that which is told
to us, without going into researches
ourselves, it and other kindred wickedness, is far too common. The same
sin that caused the utter destruction
of Sodom and Gomorrah! This and
other abominable crimes are being
practiced. How will these be stopped?
Only by the destruction of those who
practice them. Why, if a little nest of
them were left that were guilty or
these things, they would soon corrupt
others, as some are being corrupted
among us. In coming to these mountains we hoped to find a place where
we could live secluded from the
abominations of Babylon. But here
in this secluded place wickedness intrudes itself, and is practiced in this
land which we have dedicated to the

Lord as a land of Zion! How can this
be stopped? Not while those who
have knowledge of these filthy crimes
exist. The only way, according to all
that I can understand as the word
of God, is for the Lord to wipe them
out, that there will be none left to
perpetuate the knowledge of these
dreadful practices among the children
of men. And God will do it, as sure
as He has spoken by the mouths or
His prophets. He will destroy the
wicked, and those who will be left
.will be like the Nephites after the
wicked were all killed off; they were
righteous men and women who lived
for over two hundred years according
to the law of heaven.
The duty that devolves upon us is
to live pure ourselves, and to have
our children live lives of purity. There
is too much looseness among us.
Much as we are taught concerning
virtue, we occasionally hear of acts
that cause us the greatest pain
—
young people indulging in unvirtuous
actions; children born two, three, and
four months earlier than they should
be. It is an extraordinary condition
that the first children of some marriages are born sometimes five months
and even less after marriage. This
is an evidence of something very
wrong. And this is not all. We cannot tell what is done in secret. This
is made public, because the evidence
of sin comes to light and cannot be
concealed without the commission of
more hideous crime. And this among
a people such as we are! It is a disgrace to us. Yet much of it is due to
our neglect. Fathers and mothers do
not pay that attention to their children, to their habits and their associations, that they should do. If
,hey watched them with care,
and enquired of them where
they went and with whom they
associated, and threw safeguards
around them, such things would not
happen. There are conditions of
society, even among other nations,
where such things are very uncommon,
because of the habits of the people.
Fathers and mothers guard their
daughters with the greatest circumspection and vigilance. France is one
of those nations. Although France is
said to be a corrupt nation, the daughters of the people are watched and
their association with the other sex
is guarded so that nothing of this
kind scarcely ever happens. But with
us there is too much familiarity between the sexes. It is wrong; it leads
to bad results. The commission of
sin makes lives of unhappiness. No
woman can forget the trespass of her
husband, and no man can ever forget
his own sin. It is painful through
life for them to think about. We
should, as a people, guard against
these things. All sorts of evils are
introducing themselves. We have
men here with whom a woman can no
more be trusted than she could be in
the den of a wolf—and men of respectable appearance, and who act as
though they might be gentlemen.
Parents would be as safe in trusting
a daughter to a wild beast as to one
of them. This class of men prey upon
the other sex, and have brought
themselves to think that it is neither
sinful nor wrong. They destroy
virtue wherever they can, and take
pride in it. They do not believe there
need be any virtue among men, and
all women whom they can induce to
comply with their wishes they view
as their lawful prey. And these people come among us, and consort with
us! Our young men, too, consort with
them, and some of them take lessons
from them. We have heard lately of
an occurrence of this character that
has stirred our souls to the very center.
When will these things end? When
God visits the wicked with His judgments, as He will do. Then these
practices and the wicked and the
knowledge of their wickedness, will be
destroyed. Then, I hope, the filthy
details and the exact forms and
methods of these abominations will
be kept secret, as the Prophet Alma
counseled his son Helaman concerning the secret oaths and covenants
of the Jaredites, that had come down
from the days of Master Mahan, of
whom we read in the new translation, and who was the head of that
secret organization that banded
themselves together to commit murders and works of darkness. Alma said
to Helaman:

"Therefore ye shall keep these secret
plans of their oaths and their covenants from this people, and only their
wickedness, and their murders, and
their abominations, shall ye make
known unto them; and ye shall teach
them to abhor such wickedness, and
abominations, and murders; and ye
shall also teach them, that these people were destroyed on account of their
wickedness, and abominations, and
their murders."
So, I trust, it will be with us. The
knowledge of the wicked and their
destruction will be preserved in our
midst; but the abomination and the
wickedness itself will be concealed
from human knowledge, so that wickedness may be abolished in the earth,
and the reign of righteousness be
ushered in.
My brethren and sisters, in talking
in this strain I am not indulging in
any theory. I do not wish to deal in
the least exaggeration concerning
conditions that exist. My duties have
called me to mingle with the world
considerably; but I have avoided
knowledge of things that were open
to me if I had chosen to look at them
or to enquire about them. Notwithstanding this, it has been impossible
for me to avoid knowing considerable
about many wicked practices, and how
little of sin is attached to them by the
people of the world. It is this that is
the fearful feature in society. Men
may seduce; men may be guilty of
vileness; men may get disreputable
names for their association with the
other sex; and yet society will receive them and condone their offenses;
in fact, it has seemed to me sometimes
as though men of this character, with
a certain class of women, were more
attractive than pure, modest, diflident
men. They seem to think more of them
because of the fame they have
achieved in their conquests of virtue.
But a poor girl that falls in such a
way, she is trampled in the dust and
becomes a lost soul! And her own sex,
while admiring the seducer and receiving him into their society, will frequently be the most fierce and vehement in their denunciations of their
poor sister who has fallen by the wiles
and seductive influences of the man.
Now, all this is wrong. Yet this feeling is among us to some extent, also.
Men ought to be held, and I believe
the Lord does hold them 111 such
cases, to a far stricter accountability
than he does women. The woman has
her own passions to contend against;
but when she has the man's importunities added to these, shall not the
woman be viewed with mercy, and be
looked upon differently ,to that vile
creature who, possessed of strength
and power, adds his importunities to
her weakness and overcomes her, and
makes her the victim of his unholy
lust? I say, Yes, Yes! Such men will
be damned; and if there is any deeper
damnation than another, they will be
consigned to it.
Now, if we want our generations
to live in the earth, and to have them
go down through the thousand years;
if we want to have representatives
among the children of men during
that happy period, we have to lay the
foundation for that now. As we have
been told during this Conference, the
day of the Lord cometh: it is near at
hand; and if we and our children live,
it will be because we try to be pure.
No generation from this time forth
can live for any length of time unless
they are pure; for God has said it,
and His word does not return unfulfilled. Even now you can see how this
Church is being cleansed as we go
along. Look at the families that we
have known in the Church, and see
how they are being thinned out, just
as though we were passing through a
sifting machine. And when we see how
few of those whom we have known
have clung to the iron rod and maintained their faith, we are led to ask,
who then can be saved? Then how
many families there are who, after
the death of the father and mother,
are not numbered among the Saints
of God! This is a cleansing process
which is going on, and it will continue
to go on more and more, because we
are advancing. The Lord will hold us
to a stricter accountability than He
ever has done, because we have more
light, and because of the near approach of the end. The end does approach, and the Lord Jesus will come
in the clouds of heaven, as has been
predicted, and He will reign on the
earth, and over a pure people. His people will be cleansed and made pure
by the destruction of the wicked and

the preservation of the righteous. That
is the reason every wise man and
woman observes the Word of Wisdom.
They want to live and be preserved
when these calamities and judgments
shall sweep through the earth. We
ought not to have to preach it for a
minute among a people such as we are.
Every man and woman should be
determined to keep that Word, that
they may have the blessing, that they
and their children may live and not
be killed with pestilence and sickness.
Such persons will desire every child
of theirs to avoid violating the counsel of God in these things. Thoy will
also say, besides observing the Word
of Wisdom: "I want to pay my tithing.
I expect there will be a burning some
day, and I want to be preserved when
the day of burning comes. I want to
keep the law that will bring the fulfillment of the promises of God."
Should not we here in this year 1897,
live in this way?
Many have supposed that by this
time the Lord would have come in
His glory. He has not yet come in that
manner. But He is coming, and His
coming is near at hand. Therefore,
we should each endeavor to live so
that we shall be prepared for His coming; Ave should prepare the way by
keeping His commandments and living so that Satan will be bound, so
far as we and our families are concerned. It is incumbent upon us that
we should live this way; for the Lord
will not, I can assure you • CI speak
having knowledge upon this point), always bear with us. Elders cannot wear
themselves out as they have done in
the past, and as they are still doing,
in preaching the word ' of God to this
people, and the Lord not hold tho people accountable for their disobedience,
if they reject that word. The Lord will
have a pure people. He will have a
people whose hearts are changed.
Some religious societies, you know,
believe altogether in faith as the only
essential to salvation. On the other
hand, I have heard some of our Elders
go to the other extreme and almost
look upon work as being all that is
necessary, because of the saying of
James. But the word of God which we
have teaches us that we must
be born again, and our hearts must be
changed, and every evil desire crushed
out. Our whole natures should be
changed by the operations of the
Spirit of God and the principles of the
Gospel. I think it was Brother Cowley who spoke concerning some apostates whom they found while laboi'ing
in the mission field in Missouri. When
they belonged to the Church they had
not received and enjoyed the Spirit of
God. There are some probably here
today who have never had their hearts
changed, never had new desires, never
been converted from their old desires, and the "old man" is with them
still. There have been people whom,
probably, we have all known, who
would cheat, and lie, and get drunk,
and do other evil things, just as much
as if they never had been brought
into the Church of Christ. Are these
the children of God? No; God does
not own such people. When men and
women join the Church in sincerity,
they repent of their sins, and they
have new desires. The desire to Jo
evil is taken from them. The Spirit
of God will not dwell in a man that
has evil desires and does not try to
quench them. We as a people should
seek to be converted in this respect, if
we have not been. If we are as wicked
and have as wicked inclinations
since our baptism and our association
with the Church as we had before,
then we need to be converted and be
born again.
We hear a good deal of talk about
re-baptism, and the First Presidency
and the Twelve have felt that so
much re-baptism ought to be stopped.
Men, when they commit sin, think
if they can only get the Bishop to rebaptize them, they are all right and
their sins, are condoned. It is a fallacy; it will lead to destruction. There
is no such thing in the Gospel of the
Lord Jesus Christ. It is repentance
from sin that will save you, not rebaptism. If you have been baptized,
then, if you commit sin, repent of the
sin, confess it, and make the confession as broad as the knowledge of the
sin; confess it to your brethren and
sisters, and ask their forgiveness;
and do not imagine that when you
commit sin you can slip into the
waters of baptism and you are all

right again. Do not delude yourselves, brethren and sisters. Sinners,
be not deceived by such a fallacy.
Something more than this is necessary. "We need to repent of our sins,
and to confess them to God. We need
to come before the Lord 'with broken
hearts and contrite spirits, and before the Church with the spirit of
confession. "We should not be afraid
to confess our sins; for there is no
man among us that is not a sinner.
Of course, there are different degrees
of sin, and there is a difference in the
degrees; but no man or woman, in
listening to the confession of another,
need pride himself or herself and say,
"I am not a sinner. Here is this poor
creature, a sinner; oh, how I pity
him!" If we come to God in humility,
He will show unto us our sins, and our
imperfections, and our faults; and we
will feel merciful to our brethren and
sisters who, like ourselves, are weak
and erring. We will be full of pity
for them, and we will forgive them.
This is the feeling that should exist in
every bosom when men and women
who commit sin come and confess
their sins and are humble and contrite. "When Latter-day Saints hear
such things, there is a feeling of pity
wells up in their hearts, and their
souls overflow with sympathy, and
they say, "Yes, yes, we'll forgive you,
and we'll try and forget all about it.
Go on, dear brother, (or sister) repent,
and do better from this time forward,
and we will give you our faith and
prayers." That is the way Saints
should feel when their brethren and
sisters commit sin and repent of it.
The Lord, also, is moved with compassion; the angels are moved with
mercy and sympathy; and the Lord
Jesus, who stands as a Mediator between our Father and ourselves, is
filled with compassion for His
brethren and sisters when they commit sin and repent of it. Oh! all
heaven is moved by the repentance of
a sinner, and stirred up with a desire
to help the poor creature who confesses his sins and repents truly and
sincerely.
Brethren and sisters, now that this
Conference is drawing to a close, let
us endeavor to profit by the teachings
we have heard. I have been gladdened
during this Conference over one thing.
I believe the nomination of the two
brethren who are appointed to fill the
vacancies in the quorum of the
Apostles came as a surprise to the
community, if not to the Saints. 1
have not seen what the papers have
said at different times; but I understand they have been picking and
choosing and mentioning the name
of every man that is at all conspicuous in the Church, as likely to be
chosen. It is evident that the Lord
did not tell them anything. Since
these names were presented yesterday I have had several come to me
and tell me that the Lord had revealed to them that these men would
be chosen. One man said to me that
last April, when they were presenting
the names of the authorities in the
Stake to which he belongs, it was
made manifest to him that Matthias
P. Cowley would be one of the Twelve
Apostles. He said so to his companions, and told them to write it
down, as it would be fulfilled. Several instances of this kind have come
to my knowledge. I have not mingled
much with the people, because wo
have been so busy; but I have been
gratified beyond expression to learn
from these instances that the Lord is a
God of revelation, not to the First
Presidency and the Twelve alone, but
that the Latter-day Saints as a people
have the spirit of revelation. It is a
blessed thing to live in an age when
God reveals His mind and will to
those who seek for it. It is not always that we have everything told to
us; but when we want to get light
upon any subject, the Lord has provided the way. He is a God that hears
and answers prayers. He does not
conceal Himself. I am thankful that
we are not as Israel was in the days
of Elijah. The prophets of Baal cried
aloud, jumped upon their altar, cut
themselves with knives, and indulged
in all sorts of extravagances to reach
the ear of their god, while Elijah
taunted them and said,perhaps he was
asleep or had gone on a journey.
That is the condition of the world to
a great extent. I speak this without
intending any disrespect, because
there are just as good people in the
world as we are; but I say it because

there is no revelation among- them,
nor any idea that it can be obtained,
and therefore, men call in vain when
they do call; though there are honest
souls who believe the Lord will hear
their prayers, and whom He does
hear. When the Prophet Elijah called
our God heard and answered him.
So it is with this Church. It is the
Church of Jesus Christ, and when its
members call upon God they get
revelation from God, according to their
faith and diligence and the responsibility that rests upon them. As I said
last night at the Priesthood meeting,
there has never been one minute since
this Church was organized that it has
been destitute of the knowledge of God
and the voice of God. The will of God
could be obtained; it has been obtained. And the Church will never be
left without it. The authority is in
the Church to lead it, as Brother
Reynolds said. The angels and heads
of dispensations that have been upon
the earth have come and restored the
keys they held and bestowed them
upon the Prophet Joseph Smith; and
he sealed them upon the Apostles.
The same authority, the same keys,
the same power that had been conferred upon him, he transmitted in
their fullness to the Twelve Apostles.
In this way the keys and that authority have been preserved pure and
in the fullness of their power on the
earth, and are here in the midst of
this people. In this respect we stand
at the head.
It is written that the ten tribes will
come forth from the north country,
and they will come here to those who
hold the keys in this dspensation, to
receive the blessings they do not have
themselves. Here is Ephraim, and
Ephraim holds the keys. The ten
tribes are there, but the authority to
hold the keys is here. God is doing a
mighty work among the nations of
the earth, unknown to us to a great
extent. Powerful a.gencies are operating under His direction in all the nations, to bring to pass the fulfillment
of His designs. While this is all going
on, and we may seem only like a little
handful in the midst of the millions of
the earth, here in the midst of this
people the authority is held which God
recognizes, and here are the keys by
which the purposes of God will be fulfilled. All that has been spoken by
the mouths of the holy Prophets will
be accomplished. There will be a highway cast up; the ten tribes will return, and they will come to the children of Ephraim to receive their blessings.
There is everything, therefore, to
encourage us. Let us live so that we
shall be heirs and recipients of these
great blessings. Let us endeavor to
have our families live so that we
shall be prepared for the coming of the
Lord; that we will not listen to Satan,
that our children will turn a deaf ear
to his persuasions, and that we ourselves will set them the example; that
we will teach them to remember, above
all things, to never commit any sin
that will cause them to lose their
standing in the Church of Christ.
God bless you all, bless everyone
who has attended this Conference, and
fill us with the Holy Ghost, and help
us to do right. God bless our beloved
President Wilford Woodruff. God be
praised! He has heard the prayers of
His servants and people in His behalf,
that his life might be preserved, and
he is with us today, filled with a
vigor—considering his age and his
sickness—that is really astonishing.
God bless him, and bless all that pertains to him, and preserve him. We
would like to have him live forever, if
we could. God bless you all, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.




