ELDER C. W. PENROSE.
God is -with His people—The Purpose for which he
has Gathered them—A Mission for All—No Work
done for the Dead will be in Vain—The Earth and
its Inhabitants to be Kedeemed.
I have greatly enjoyed this Conference. It has seemed to me that' the
Spirit of the Lord has been poured
out in great abundance upon the
speakers and upon the hearers. At
every meeting which we have held we
have received valuable instruction, and
the testimonies that have been borne
to us concerning the work of God have
been prompted and inspired by the
Holy Spirit, and all the proceedings of
this Conference have been joyful to
me. I thank the Lord, in the midst of
the congregation, that I have been
permitted to be present and to enjoy
the good spirit which has been poured
out upon us.
I also have a testimony to bear concerning this great work, and feel willing now, as I always have felt ever
since I joined the Church in my boyhood, to bear that testimony, in public

or in private, when called upon so to
do. I know that this work is the work
of the Lord. I know that God has been
with His people from the organization
of the Church to the present day. I
know that His Spirit was not only
with His servant Joseph, whom He
called to lay the foundation of this
work, but that it has been with those
who have succeeded him. They have
been prophets, seers and revelators,
and the Lord has been with them.
This work has not been built up by
the power of man, by the learning of
this world, by the riches and influence
that come from the world, but it has
been by the power of God. And I
rejoice to know that that power is
still with His servants and with His
people, and that, notwithstanding our
many failings and weaknesses and
shortcomings—some of which have
been pointed out during this Conference—we are the people of the Lord;
that He has gathered us from afar—
from the east and the west, and the
north and the south, and has brought
us up here into these chambers of the
mountains, that we may build up
Zion, that we may help to establish
righteousness in the earth, that we
may be witnesses for God and for .the
truth in the midst of an unbelieving
generation. I feel very thankful in
my soul for the testimony of Jesus
which has been planted in my heart
through obedience to the Gospel. God
gave me this witness when I was a
boy, when I came out from my friends
and my associates and joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. He put His Spirit into my
heart, and I thank God that it has
never departed from me. The Lord has
been with me, as with the rest of His
servants, in traveling in the ministry;
and I have seen His power made manifest in various ways. While I have
been in this Conference, my mind has
reverted to many things that occurred
in my history in connection with the
Church in the past, and in all these
things I have had cause to rejoice, and
to thank and praise the Lord.
God has brought us here, my brethren and sisters, to these mountains
not merely to gather around us the
things of this world, to make us happy
and comfortable temporally; but He
has called us here with a mission to
build up Zion, to publish the Cospel
of peace to all nations, to gather His
people, to establish His kingdom, to
prepare the way for the coming of our
Lord Jesus Christ to reign as King of
Kings and Lord of Lords, and all the
promises which God has made to us
will be fulfilled. Every word that has
been spoken under the influence ct His
Spirit by His servants will come to
pass. The blessings pronounced upon
our heads when we were confirmed into the Church; the blessings promised
to us by the Patriarchs when they
laid their hands upon our heads and
blessed us; the blessings promised to
us in the House of the Lord—every
word will be fulfilled; not one thing
will fall to the ground. We may fail,
and fall by the way, through our own
follies and our own transgressions, and
our own weaknesses and shortcomings; but the work of God
and the word of God will abide
forever, and the kingdom and
the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heavens will, as the
prophet predicted, be given to the people of the Saints of the Most High
—
a people whom Christ will have prepared for His coming.
We should take to heart the counsels
which we have received while we have
been gathered in this glorious Conference, and carry them home with us,
and, if our families have not been
present, teach them to our households.
The brethren who have come from
distant points, who bear the Holy
Priesthood, should carry home with
them the spirit of this Conference and
the teachings that have been given,
and disseminate these things among
the people, that the fire which has
been kindled upon this altar may be
taken to every part of the land of
Zion, and the hearts of the righteous
be made to rejoice. I know that it is
a good thing for us to be in perfect
harmony with those who preside over
us in the Holy Priesthood—the officers
in our wards, and in our Stakes, and
with the Presidency and Apostles of
the Church. The mind and will of the
Lord is with them, and when we are
in harmony with them we shall be in
harmony with the powers that are on
high. This is what God desires to ac-



complish on the earth—to bring a
people to Him who shall be in harmony with Him, in whom His Spirit
can have free course and be gorified;
a people who shall be sensitive to the
whisperings and operations of His divine Spirit flowing down from His
presence. For He designs to regenerate and redeem the earth upon which
we stand;' and we, His people, whom
He has gathered from afar, are to be
the instruments in His hands of bringing about this great work. The earth
is to be redeemed, and all the inhabitants thereof; and our mission
on earth is to labor with the Lord
for the accomplishment of this purpose. And this should be first and
foremost with us. All other things
should be put aside as subordinate. Not
that we need to cease from our exertions to make ourselves happy and
comfortable with the things that come
from the earth—not by any means;
but that these should be consecrated
to the Lord; that all our efforts, all
our exertions, should be with a view
to building up Zion and establishing
His glorious purposes in the earth;
that we may help to save the sons and
daughters of Adam—those that are
living on the earth and those that
have passed away and gone behind
the veil.
This is our work. To this God has
called us. This is what we are here
for. This is why we have been sent
from the courts on high—our first
birthplace—down on the earth. We
are the children of God, and the Lord
has called us to dwell on the earth in
the later days, that we might work for
Him and bring about this glorious purpose—the redemption of the earth and
the inhabitants thereof. We are to
preach the Gospel; we are to gather
Israel; we are to go into the houses
that have been prepared, to minister
in behalf of our dead, that they may
be redeemed. And we need not think
that anything we do. there will fail, or
be done for naught. It will all count.
I have heard people say, "How do we
know that the persons we are baptized
for in the House of the Lord will ever
have any benefit from our administrations? We do not know whether they
will receive the Gospel. We do not
know whether they will repent. Are
we not working in the dark?" Not at
all. The Lord has promised that the
time shall come when "every knee
shall bow and every tongue confess
that Jesus is the Christ, to the glory
of God the Father." So, then, our
works performed vicariously in the
House of God—our work for our dead
—at some time will count. It will not
be thrown away, if our friends who
have gone before us into the spirit
world do not immediately obey the
Gospel. The time will come when they
will be glad to receive it, and then the
ordinances performed for them will
stand to their good. As the Prophet
Joseph declared, when he wrote on this
subject, that which is recorded on the
earth is recorded in the heavens, and
though the books on the earth might
be burned we shall find that a record
is kept on high, and that in the
heavenly archives the names of those
who have been baptized for, and those
who are baptized for them, will be
written and will stand to the credit
of those for whom these services have
been performed. So that our work for
our dead will abide and will stand,
and the time will come when every one
who is administered for will rejoice
and be thankful that some good friend
or relative has been in the House of
the Lord on earth and ministered in
his or her behalf. .
This is a great work we are engaged
in, and no tongue can tell its magnitude. When our minds begin to open
concerning it, we feel as though we
could talk for a year about it, and
then we could not tell all about it.
It comprehends the .salvation of all
that can be saved on earth, the living
and the dead; and then the redemption
of the earth itself, its purification, its
sanctification, that it may be brought
up among the ransomed and redeemed
worlds, and shine in its own glory, being graced with the presence of itseternal Creator, where the ransomed
of the Lord shall walk in white, where
perfect harmony shall abound, and
where every soul living shall praise
the Lord, in the earth, around the
earth, and under it, and in the sea,,
and all things that pertain to it will
be filled with praise, with joy, and
with glorious life. This is the work we
are engaged in. We are called to this,,
my brethren.
Now then, let us lay this to heart.

Let us be stirred up in our souls in
regard to this great work that God has
called us to. Not only has He called
the Prophets and Apostles and leaders
of the Church, but every man and every
woman and every child born in Zion.
We are all called with a holy calling.
We are the Lord's people, and He has
put this work upon us, and it is for us
to do it. If we do, great shall be our
joy, and eternal shall be our reward.
You need not think that any good you
do escapes the notice of Him on high,
who shall be our Judge. Our acts are
recorded. God understands us. He
knows the motives that move us in
our souls. He knows the intents of
our hearts. And though we may sometimes misjudge each other, we shall
not be misjudged by the Almighty.
He understands us, and He knows our
failings, our weaknesses and our
shortcomings. Now, let us see to it
that we keep in view continually that
we are God's people, that we must be
different from the world, that God has
called us out of the world, that we
may be His people, and His servants,
to build up Zion, to establish righteousness, to bring about all things prethat are past. For, these are the times
that are past. For these are the times
of the restitution of all things; this is
the time for the coming of our Lord
Jesus Christ, our Elder Brother; this
is the work preparatory to His coming.
Now, let us unite in spirit. Let us put
away from ourselves all things that
offend, everything contrary to the
genius and spirit of the Gospel and to
the counsel and direction of the Lord;
and let us look for light and intelligence to the sources that God Almighty has put in His Church for that
purpose. I have been very much
startled, quite recently, to know of
people who are opposing certain
movements simply because they understand that the leading authorities
of the Church want them. Just think
of that now for a moment! The idea
of men, holding the Priesthood too, opposing a thing because they believe
'
that the authorities of the Church
want it! What condition of mind
must they be in?
Brethren and sisters, let us take to
heart the counsels that we have received in this Conference, and carry
home the spirit with us. Let us remember that God Almighty has established an order in His Church—the
order of the Holy Priesthood—for the
guidance of His people, that they may
be one. They cannot be one unless
they unite on this principle; and
His Spirit will not be in
their hearts to harmonize and unite
them except they listen to the guides
that God has placed to lead them in
the path of life. These are important
things. I know the time was in the
Church when every man desired with
his whole heart to find out what was
wanted of the Lord through His servants, and then he desired to accomplish it. That should be the spirit
dwelling in our hearts today. Do we
not need guidance now as much as we
ever did? Do we not need the hand
of the Lord to lead us along and
take us out of our difficulties—
our financial troubles, our labor
troubles, these social difficulties
that are around us as well as around
the world I say we do. We need the
light of the Lord, the voice of the
Lord; and God has placed in His
Church, just as much today as He did
anciently, 'Apostles and Prophets,
Evangelists, Pastors and Teachers, for
the work of the ministry, for the perfecting of the Saints, for the edifying
of the body of Christ." If God has
anything to reveal to this people as
a Church, He will reveal it through
the head, through the man that He
has placed to hold the keys; and He
will bless all His servants who are
Prophets, Seers and Revelators with
the spirit of their calling, if we uphold and sustain them, not only by
our faith and our prayers, but by our
works.
I desire with all my heart to be
faithful and true to the Gospel, to endure to the end of my earthly career;
and then I know I shall be safe
when I get on the other side. I desire to do all I. can while I breathe the
breath of life to build up this glorious
work. I know of nothing that a man
could be engaged in that is worth as
much. My whole soul was in the
Church when I came into it; I feel
glad that I am the same today; that
my heart is set to help to build up
the kingdom of God in any way that

my services can be available. I thank
God for the testimony of the truth. I
thank God for the spirit that has been
present at this Conference. I thank
God that He has given me this witness, and I desire to serve Him and
keep His commandments, and to aid
others in doing- so to the extent of my
ability. May God bless this people,
and may Zion grow and increase and
spread abroad, and become the joy of
the whole earth. I know that God
will redeem His people. I know that
Eden will bloom again. I know that
Paradise will be restored. I know that
Satan will be bound.with all his hosts,
and that this earth, and the children
of men that belong to it, will come
forth from darkness and death, each
in his place and time and season; and
God will save His children, and He
will glorify those who labor for
righteousness, and crown them with
eternal life and everlasting joy. God
help us to be faithful, for Christ's
sake. Amen.




