PREST. GEORGE Q. CANNON.
Importance of sustaining the Authority of God
—
Good effects of reading the Written Word
—
Skepticism in secular literature—Evil results of
ignoring the Counsels of God's Servants.
In standing up this afternoon to address you, my brethren and sisters, I
do so with the hope that I shall have
your faith and prayers, and that the
spirit that has rested upon our brethren who have spoken thus far during
the Conference will be given unto me

also. To arise before a congregation
of this size is almost appalling, and no
man that realizes the responsibility or
teaching the people, it seems to me,
would dare do so unless he felt that the
Lord would assist him and be with
him.
"We have heard a great many excellent instructions during yesterday
and .this morning. We have had
spiritual instructions, and also instructions concerning practical duties, although there is nothing connected with
our religion that is not really practical.
We can apply that word to all the
duties that devolve upon us as individuals and as a people.
We have heard considerable concerning the authority that God has restored. I feel that this is an important theme, and one that cannot be
dwelt upon too much in our hearing.
There has been noticeably, it seems to
me, considerable change in the Church
in relation to that authority, and its
claims upon and its standing among
the people. Anything that contributes
to weaken that authority or to lessen
its value in the minds of the people is
something to be avoided and, I believe,
to be dreaded. The success and the
triumph of the work of God thus far
can only be attributed to the fact that
the Lord has placed in His Church His
Priesthood, and has given it authority;
for to its guidance, to its influence
and activity among the people, can
be ascribed the prosperity of this work
of our God. To no other cause can we
attribute the deliverances that have
been wrought out in our behalf. Its
operations have been most beneficent.
We have heard considerable concerning it in the remarks that have been
made. But I have noticed myself among the Latter-day Saints that
where the people of God pay attention
to the written word, and cherish and observe the written
word, they are always better
prepared to hear the oral instructions
of the servants of God; they are better prepared to receive those instructions; they have greater interest in
seeking to obtain instructions, than
they have when they are careless
about the written word of God. I have
felt for some time that there is an indifference, not to call it by any
stronger name, among the Latter-day
Saints in regard to the word of God. I
would like to ask this congregation,
how many of you read the Book of
Mormon, the Bible, the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and the discourses of the Elders as they are published? How many of you make a
practice of reading the word of God
as it is in these records, and as it appears in published discourses? I am
afraid that if you were interrogated
upon this point many would say, "I
have not read the Bible for such a
length of time; I have not read the
Book of Mormon for such a length of
time; I have not read the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants for such a
length of time; I do not read the discourses of the Elders that are published; I do not take the paper that
contains them; I prefer other papers."
I hope I am not doing the people of
God injustice in making this statement; but I believe that comparatively few of the Latter-day Saints are in
the habit of reading the words of God
that He has given to us in the records
that have come to us. I believe there
are families, from what I hear and
what I notice myself, that do
not open the Book of Mormon,
or the Bible, or the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, from one
month's end to another. These books,
if they are in possession of families,
too frequently lie covered with dust,
untouched, and not read. Do I do any
injustice in making this statement? It
I do, I am glad of it—that is, I would
be very glad if what I say is not correct, and that the Book of Mormon, the
Bible, the Doctrine and Covenants and
the discourses of the Elders are
perused regularly, and sought for with
avidity. If we talk about the living
oracles and want to pay respect to
them, how shall we do this? Shall we
do it by never reading their words—by
paying no attention to that which they
say? That is a very poor way of doing. We ought to listen to their words.
When we cannot hear their words, we
should read them; for they are the
words of the authorized servants of
God. I feel that there is a great neglect among us in this respect. I notice
it in my own family, I notice it in
other families, and still in my own

family I do the best I can in these
matters. But you will find that,
among certain classes, scientific works
are more read, magazines are more
read, novels are more read, publications that do not contribute to faith
are more read, and the result is that
we are in danger of a wave of infidelity and unbelief sweeping through
our land, to the injury of the faith of
the rising generation. It is a thing
that fills me with more fear than almost any thing else concerning ourselves and our children. You cannot
take a magazine up—the best and most
popular magazines—without finding
articles in it that are—I was going to
say designed—but their purport and the
drift of their arguments are opposed
to the truths that are contained in the
Bible, Book of Mormon and Doctrine
and Covenants. Talk with young men
who go to universities and colleges,
and you will find that many are more
or less imbued with these ideas. I
need only refer to a few—the age
of the earth, prehistoric man, the creation of man, man's entrance upon the
earth, the nature of man's descent.
The truth concerning these principles,
is being undermined and weakened
so that at the present time, if it were
not for the Bible, the Book of Mormon
and the Doctrine and Covenants, we
ourselves would be at sea. But those
who do not receive the Book of
Mormon and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants as divine
are in a deplorable condition;
they do not know what is true. Many
of the clergy are in the same position
as the rest of the world; they have
adopted the new ideas concerning these
scientific discoveries. Hundreds of
clergymen, who call themselves ministers of the Gospel, do not believe in
Adam and Eve and their creation; do
not believe in the Mosaic account of
creation; do not believe that
man is a son of God, descended
from God; but they believe that the
earth has been in existence and peopled by man ages before the period
given in the Mosaic account. There is
no doubt that the earth is much older
than many of us think it is. But they
mingle truth with error, and they build
up fallacies, and they are propagating
them; and the Latter-day Saints, who
read this literature.and do not read the
word of God, are in danger of losing
their faith.
We have in these three books to
which I have referred the pure word of
God—at least in two of them—uncoirupted, undefiled; and we can
read them with a knowledge
that they are true. We have
the word of God in the Bible; but
it has been translated by uninspired
men. And no matter how men may
pile up arguments and build theories—
they may build them as high as these
mountains of ours, and they may appear to be true, yet we know they are
not true where they come in contact
with these records of ours, because we
know that these records are true. Godhas revealed them, and the Book of
Mormon has been translated by a man
of God and has come to us in purity.
Therefore, when we read about our
father Adam and our mother Eve, read
about the fall of man, the creation of
the earth or the peopling of the earth,
about the Son of God and His aonement to redeem us from the "ail, we
know that those principles are trueand from God.
It is important that we as a people
should understand these things, and
that we should build our faith mv
pregnably upon the rock of revelation,
constant revelation; not alone the
revelation given two thousand years,
ago but also the revelation given today', and which comes to us in its purity.
I have been impressed very much of
late with the danger to which our
young people are exposed. When the
parents neglect to read the word of
God, when they prefer novels, magazines, or any kind of light reading,
and do not set the example by reading that which God has given to us,
you may expect the children to do the
same. They will not take up the
Bible, the Book of Mormon and
the Book of Doctrine and Covenants to read, because when
they read these illustrated papers, these catchy prints, these
light novels, everything of a serious
nature loses its interest. To people
who are fed on highly seasoned food,,
a plain diet is not inviting;men who
have been accustomed to stimulants
crave stimulants. People who read the

class of literature I refer to are in the
same condition mentally; they desire
the sensational, and reading which
does not have some of this element in
it possesses but little interest. The result is, our books and our discourses,
—
that which God reveals—go without
being perused.
I do not want to dwell on this—it is
not necesary. I leave it with you to
reflect upon it. I look upon it as a most
serious matter that should be called to
the attention of this Conference. I
Wish I had language to make you all
realize the danger we are in from mischievous literature, and the necessity
for a reformation in our reading
habits. Do not wonder at your sons
and daughters going astray and losing
the faith, when they do not read the
word of God.
Do you know what I believe about
the living oracles? I believe that the
bondage we are in today—I want you
all to hear what I have to say, for I
want to say it considerately—the bondage we are in today is due to the
neglect of this people in listening to
counsel; and not only in not listening
to it, but in not seeking it. We are in
bondage—in debt. As a community
we groan under a load of debt. We
have, it is said, hundreds of unemployed people. I do not know how
many there are, but reports come to
the effect that they are numerous.
Why is it? If this people had listened
to the counsel of the servants of God,
or had sought it, would this be the
case? Certainly not, in my opinion.
God has not led us here to these
mountains to starve. He has not given
the spirit of gathering to these Latter-day Saints in the remote parts of
the earth and brought them here to
"walk the streets in idleness, with
their hands in their pockets. He
has not given his spirit to such
an extent that the authorities may
have to repress it, and say
to the Elders abroad, "Restrain the
people; do not let them come here for
the present." Why, what an incongruity, what a strange thing, to say that
God would give the spirit of gathering
to the people to come where they could
not get employment, and where they
would go hungry and have to live on
charity; or, after they had come, return to their own lands, as some have
done. To me, the very sight of this
condition is an evidence that there is
something wrong, or something has
been wrong.
Let me refer to the railroads here.
How many Latter-day Saints are employed on the railroads in this State?
I wonder who can answer. Who built
these railroads? How many railroads
are there in this State that the Latterday Saints did not build and own?
There are but few in this State ol
Utah that they did not build and own or
control. Hundreds of Utah men were
employed on these railroads. Suppose
that every man that had owned any
share in them had said to himself, "I
shall not part with my stock in these
agencies, if I can help it; I shall maintain my holdings in these roads, so
that my fellow citizens can get employment on them, and the policy not
been adopted in our State of sending
to remote states for people to do the
work that our own citizens ca,n do,"
what would have been the result?
Why, today, instead of our pt^/ple
walking around unemployed, as many
have to do, they would find abundant
employment. I do not want to risk a
guess at the number that would be employed; you can guess as well as I.
Herein we are reaping the consequences of our selfishness and want of
prudence. Do you wonder at it, when
God has told us so plainly what we
shall do? When God has placed men to
guide us and to counsel us, and their
counsels have been neglected and disregarded? I wonder that God has
been so merciful with us as he has
been in these things, and that He has
not scourged us more than He has.
I look upon the highest duty that I
have in connection with the service of
God—after personally laboring to
make myself pure and to conform to
all the requirements of the Gospel
—
my first duty after that is to build up
Zion. God sent me to earth for that.
He has given me His Spirit for that.
He has gathered us together to build
up Zion. It is the highest, the noblest,
the plainest duty that God has assigned to us, as a people and as individuals. Up to this hour I have
never labored for anything else. I
would not go anywhere to build up
anything else. I have never had the
inclination to do it. I wanted every


minute of my time, every faculty of
my mind and body, every power and
talent that God has given me, to be
devoted exclusively to the building up
of Zion. I have no other aim in life,
and I want no other aim. Now, if this
be my motive, I should not do anything at any time to injure Zion. If I
own stock in a railroad, or in any other
public enterprise, and am offered a
good price for it, I should first ask
myself, Is the sale of this consistent
with the building up of Zion? Through
the invitation of President Young, I
was one of the original incorporators
of one of our railways. I could have
sold my interest in that at several
times for a considerable sum of money.
But I desired the control kept here,
and I said, No, I will not sell. But
the control passed out of the State,
and though the stock has decreased
very greatly in value, I have had the
satisfaction of knowing that I have
not contributed in any manner to
the bringing about of the condition of
things which I now deplore.
Now, when I say "building up
Zion," do I mean by that, building up
a system that is peculiar to the Latter-day Saints, and that will exclude all
but Latter-day Saints? No. There is
where the misconception arises
in regard to our views and
aims. Whenever Zion is built up
as it should be, we will have
a condition of things that will be the
admiration and the attraction of the
whole world. There will be no heavy
taxation. There will be no officers
working for enormous salaries. There
will be no bribery. There will be no
unthrift, money being spent lavishly,
improvidently, and in a way to oppress
the people. Whenever Zion shall rule,
the very opposite of this will be the
condition of society. The widow can
live on her lot, and not be taxed to
deprive her of it. The workingman can
have his acre and a quarter, with his
improvements on it, and can hold it
without being taxed out of it. That
will be the condition when Zion shall
prevail. There will be no oppression.
There will be no sin permitted that the
law can reach. There will be a condition of society that all honest, virtuous and upright men will admire. I
labor with all my might, and have
done since I was old enough, to bring
to pass that happy condition. I pray
for it with all the faith I can. It is
my constant thought, by night and by
day. I labor for it as well as pray for
it. For I want a reign of righteousness to be ushered in. I want to see
a condition of things in this State that
shall be such as I have feebly attempted to describe. And I know that the
Latter-day Saints have the same desire. We may be mistaken at
times; we may be misled; we
may do foolish things; but
underneath, underlying all our
thoughts and all our acts, is the intense desire to see a better condition
of things brought about, not for ourselves alone, but for all. And I want
to say to you here to day that it never
will be brought about until the voice
of experienced men, especially inspired
men, will be listened to. In any other
community, where right prevails, men
would not say concerning these men
that are around here what they do
about us. It is because we are members of a church that we are assailed;
because they do not want the influence
of that wisdom and that experience
felt among the people. Here are men
on this stand who have helped build
this commonwealth. They laid the
foundations of it. They carried it forward. They helped enact the laws that
have governed it. And when this Territory passed out of the control of
those who were influenced by the
policy of these men, it was in a condition that was most admirable. It
was out of debt, and lightly taxed. It
was in a condition that people look
back to now and admire, and regret
that we cannot have such a condition
exist today. Do not mistake me, and
think that I mean the Latter-day
Saints should have exclusive control of
civil affairs; not so; no more than
others should have exclusive control.
Brethren and sisters, we talk about
listening to the oracles of God. Do you
listen to them? Do you think them
entitled to your support and your confidence? If you had offered to you a
good bargain in selling out some important enterprise, would you £,sk
yourselves, "How is this going to affect the interests of Zion?" Or would
you say, "I can make money out of


this, and I will take care of myself?"
I say to you that whenever Latter-day
Saints come to the latter conclusion
they will lose by it. The money that
they get will not do them nor their
children good. I only state a
truism when I say this. To prove it
we have only to look around us and see
results. The men that have sought
counsel and followed it have been
blessed in all they have done. The
money they have made has been prospered, because it has been made properly—it has been made with a view to
carrying out the purposes of God.
I would like to bring these questions
home to us in a practical manner. Let
us look at them as practical men. We
are here in the State of Utah. It is
our duty to build up this State. Not
for the Mormons alone—do not mistake
my position—not for the Mormons, but
for every man and woman that wants
to live an honest and upright life and
to be a good citizen. With the views
and the knowledge I have, I should deplore a feeling that would prompt us
to build it up for ourselves alone. We
are in the world, and a part of the
world. God has given us a mission in
the world, and we know how to fill it.
We cannot be accused of egotism if
we say that we know how to build up
this country. We know what policy to
pursue to make this community a happy and prosperous community. The
proofs are in sight. We do not talk
as men who have not had experience.
We understand the question. And we
know that if the people would listen
to the counsels that are given to them,
they would be led in a path of safety,
a path of peace, and a path of prosperity. But there is every effort being
made, and has been for some time, to
destroy this influence, and many of the
Latter-day Saints, apparently, have
not had discernment enough to discover the spirit that actuates those
who are making these attempts.
I pray God to bless us in this Conference, to fill us with the Holy Spirit,
and to give unto us the words of life
and salvation and cause our hearts to
rejqice. I want us to see our errors. I
want to talk about these errors. I
want to warn, where we need warning
:—and we do need warning. I know we
are not as we should be. I am not
satisfied myself with my own condition. I am not satisfied with the
condition of the Later-day Saints.
I do not want to say anything to lull
you to sleep. I do not want to sing
any siren songs in your ears. It is
pleasant enough to talk about those
pleasant things; but here is a condition of things before us that we cannot close our eyes to. How shall this
condition be remedied? How shall this
people be led and guided out of the
difficulties in which they are involved?
What can we say to you, to point out
the dangers that you are in. and to
show you the path that you should
tread to escape these dangers, and to
be the people that God designs we
shall be. There is only one way—and
we will all have to come to it—and
that is to listen io the voice of God
in our midst, and ask for it, and not
be as some are, "Don't talk to me. I
don't want any church interference. I
don't care how much you know; you
may have all the experience in the
world; but I don't want to talk to you,
you are an officer in the church, ana
I don't want any ecclesiastical interference with me." Why, that spirit
—
where will it lead us to? You can
answer that question yourselves, each
one of you. I believe in the principles
of government. I have my views concerning them; you all have, no doubt.
But shall We, who know what we do,
accept party as the paramount issue
among us? When I heard the proposition that the Latter-day Saints
should divide on party lines, I advocated it. I have not changed my feelings in regard to it. I know that it is
better for us. But we need not set up
party as an idol and worship it, as
though it was a new-found idol,
which we should bow down
to and worship. That is the
other extreme. We should not go
to these extremes. We should act like
wise people, and do that which is the
best for us in every way. I do not, in
saying this, wish to say one word
about politics, only to clear myself
from any suspicion of saying anything
in opposition to the maintenance of
party lines. As I have said, I believed
in the division on party lines when I
heard it was being attempted. I knew
it was the right thing to do. I have

been glad ever since that we did it,
and I would not have it changed if it
could be helped—and it can be
helped. We should not interfere
with each other in our party rights,
our party beliefs, or party allegiance.
But do not go to such extremes; do
not be carried away by them.
I pray God to bless us with his Holy
Spirit, that during this Conference we
may have a time of rejoicing. I
humbly ask it in the name of Jesus.
Amen.




