ELDER FRANKLIN D- RICHARDS
Books cannot give Authority nor administer Ord.
nances—The Gospel is a practical System—No
Keligion but Christ's reveals the Resurrection
—
The Christian Sabbath and its Importance—The
only true Gospel and Priesthood.
In arising to address this vast congregation, I earnestly desire a continuation of that liberality of spirit which
was enjoyed yesterday by those
whose privilege it was to minister unto
us, realizing that without it we shall
not be edified in the truth and the
knowledge of God. In arising to speak
upon and testify of the work of God,
it is desirable to know what to speak
about as well as what to say about it.
Yesterday I felt peculiar pleasure
and joy of spirit in listening to the
testimonies of the brethren, because
of the simplicity and force of many of
the truths that were uttered. One of
them came forcibly to my mind, as
well as to the rest of the hearers, concerning the value and importance of
the living oracles to the Church of
God on the earth as being the principle of precedence in the midst of God's
people over written instructions that
are given by men. Inasmuch as the
Elders speak by the Holy Spirit, the
word of the Lord is that their instructions should be scripture—"shall be
the will of the Lord, shall be the mind
of the Lord, shall be the word of the
Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord
and the power of God unto salvation."
When the declaration was made concerning the Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants
how deficient they would be in administering salvation, if they alone
were enjoyed by the people. Now we
know just how it has worked with all
Christendom, to have the Bible without having authority to administer
the ordinances mentioned in it.Now we
may possess either of these books, 01
all of them, and they can not baptize
a single man, or woman, into the
Church. There is not power enough in
all the books to do it, nor is there
power in all the books to give any man
authority to do it. Consequently, then,
it requires the authority from the Lord
to be present to administer in all His
ordinances. The highest authority
that we have known—the Lord Jesus
Christ Himself, stated, that it was not
possible without the birth of the water
and of the spirit to enter the kingdom
of heaven. Said He to the learned
Nicodemus, "Except a man be born
of the water and of the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God."
That was a declaration of principle
that was inexorable. He who created
this earth and causes it to travel
round the sun every three hundred and
sixty-five days and six hours, established those great eternal principles
that rule the heavens, also the law that
except a man be born of the water
and of the spirit he cannot enter into
the kingdom of God; and one is just
as much a law of nature as the other.
The latter is the law of nature and of
grace to man. Who could administer
these ordinances except they received
the authority from God to do it? These
books can neither baptize, nor confirm
us. They cannot confirm upon us the
Holy Ghost nor a membership in the
Church of Christ, neither can they administer to us any other of the ordinances which wre are receiving, and
in which we rejoice so much, in the
house of our God. It requires nothing
less than a present living minister in
the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to
administer in all the ordinances, in
counsel, and in directing all the affairs
of the Church of Christ. We have
learned this, and understand it, or else
we do not know where our safety
lies.
The Gospel of Jesus Christ is a sys-

tern of things which, in order to be
known and understood, must be lived.
A man cannot preach with effect and
power to another the forgiveness of
sins through faith in the Lord Jesus
Christ, or baptism for the remission
of his sins, unless he has himself been
baptized for the remission of his sins
and has faith in the Lord Jesus Christ
himself. No man can administer in
the ordinances of the Gospel of Christ
with effect and with power, unless he
has first been made partaker of them
himself; and that is how we cannot,
any of us, preach the power of the
resurrection, because none of us have
been raised from the dead. When,
by and by, the time of the resurrection comes, men will teach it to us
who have been raised from the dead,
and who understand and have the
power of it and the keys of it. That
is why you cannot be baptized for your
dead in the house of the Lord, until
you have been first baptized and received ordinances yourself. The Gospel has to be lived in order to be
realized and its power received. The
man who goes forward with real repentance of heart for all his sins and
covenants with God that he will serve
Him the rest of his days, according to
the best of his ability, with the grace
of God bestowed upon him, and goes
forward and receives this ordinance,
rejoices in this Gospel; because this
is the first step in it, and when a man
does this with full purpose of heart
and enters upon keeping the commandments of God he receives the
Holy Spirit. The promise made to
him is true, and is fulfilled, and everybody under the sound of my voice
that has ever pursued that course
knows that it is true. They know
that in entering into the service and
keeping the commandments of God
they receive the Holy Spirit, when administered to by those who are authorized of God; and it gives to one
the gift of tongues, to talk in a language that he does not know himself.
That same spirit gives to another the
gift of interpretation of what the first
has been talking about, to the edification of all who have listened. It gives
to another the gift of healing, that if
he is sick, afflicted and distressed,
and is living his religion, he can call
upon the Elders, receive their blessing and be healed. If he is a minister,
of the Lord himself, and labors to receive it, he will have the gift to administer the anointing to others, and
they will be healed; or he may receive
the gift of prophecy, of faith, of wisdom, of visions, of dreams, or to hear
the still small voice of the Holy
Spirit giving inspiration to his soul. It
requires a man to live in the continual
state of humility and obedience towards God, of repentance for every
imperfection, folly and vanity, and
an effort to depart therefrom, and to
sanctify himself by the working of the
Spirit and the belief of the truth unto
everlasting life. This Gospel brings
with it the gifts, the blessings and
the grace of God, so that the faithful
Saint, as he goes along in the straight
and narrow path, knows of the goodness of God, that he is in fellowship
with the Lord; that he is not alone
and without God in the world, but that
the angels are about him, and the care
of the Lord is over him.
Well, now, we have a Gospel that is
full of joy and consolation. It opens
up principles of intelligence, and revelation, of the knowledge of things past
and present and to come. There are
a great many other religions in the
world, and some very powerful ones.
For instance, there is the Mohammedan religion, and those people have a
faith of their own, and they aire very
numerous, about 175,000,000, they estimate, I believe. They have their
prophet, they have their faith, they
have their ideas of futurity, and they
are a sort of cousin in the relation
to father Abraham's family. His son,
Ishmael, and Isaac's son, Esau, in
their seed, constitute a great portion
of that class of people. They have had
apostles raised up among them, from
the seed of Abraham as they say,
and they entertain a certain amount
of faith. In fact, the promise of the
Lord, wherein he said he knew Abraham, that he would command his children after him, is manifest in that
people, in that they believe in one God,
and they claim one prophet, Mohammed. Then, again, we look to the
eastern world, in China, for instance,
where are said to be about four hundred millions of human beings, and
they believe in doctrines given them
by Confucius and by Buddhah, and

others. But those four hundred millions are given up to the worship of
idols. They are idolaters, with the
rest; and so we may go on over the
world, and find scores of these great
branches of religion that have had
their heads and chiefs, their faiths
and beliefs. What I want to call your
special attention to in this connection,
is this: Has any one of them ever had
a man of their number pass through
death, rise again from the grave and
declare to them the principles of having obtained through him or by him, a
resurrection—been lifted up to immortality through their faith? "We do
not find it in history anywhere in the
earth that they have ever had such a
testimony or evidence of a resurrection and immortality beyond the
grave. All that they have given to
them is the exercise of a certain faith
that lasts them through this life. But
the Gospel of the Latter-day Saints,
which is the Gospel of the former
day Saints, as well, is different from any
believed in by any other people as to
all these things, and people who believe in the real Gospel of Jesus Christ,
the Gospel that He instituted, have
something more and better and beyond
what any other portion of the human
family have to look to.
The great Captain of our salvation
went into the grave with marks in His
hands and in His feet and in His side,
and He came forth out of that grave
in three days, and He did not go away
without being seen. He made Himself
known, communicated with them, associated with them, in fact, and gave
them a certain knowledge of the truth
of the sayings he uttered Himself to
Moses a good many years before, on
the mountain. He said to Moses:
"This is My work and My glory, to
bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." This is His great
work. The human family had, through
transgression, come under the law of
sin and death, and He had come to
restore that which was lost, and to
bring to pass the resurrection, to
open the prison doors to the spirits in
prison, them that were bound, and
declared the acceptable day of the
Lord, and bestowed gifts to men. This
is the kind of a Captain of our salvation that we have, one who has revealed this knowledge. Said He, "As
the Father hath power in Himself to
lay down His life and take it again,
so hath He given unto the Son power
to lay down His life and to take it
again," and He did so. Now where
is there another among those strange
religions that do not believe in the
Lord Jesus Christ as their Redeemer
that entertain any such knowledge
and understanding of eternal life and
of the resurrection of the dead? That
He has obtained these, we have abundant testimony. Stephen said he saw
Him sitting at the right hand of God,
while he, Stephen, was being persecuted and stoned to death; and Paul
said he had seen and heard things not
lawful for a man to utter. And the
Savior, after He had done those wonderful works in His own land, came
over here to America, and there was
here no chance for deception, because
He showed them the wounds in His
hands and in His feet. He was the
same person that went down into the
grave and came out triumphant over
the grave. Now, if any of these other
religions have had any man that has
gone through the grave and risen
again, they certainly have been very
lacking in kindness not to come and
show their fellow worshippers of that
knowledge and that power and that
great attainment. But the Lord Jesus
has shown unto the Saints composing
His Church in the different parts of the
world, the gifts and blessings of immortality and eternal life which He
came and brought to light. The Apostles understood the same thing.
Paul, in writing to Timothy, says
that "life and immortality is brought
to light through the Gospel." So then,
we have the Gospel of the Lord Jesus
Christ as something that endures beyond
'
the grave, while the
knowledge that the rest of
the human family possesses
only leads them to the grave, and beyond that is to them darkness and ignorance, and they know
nothing about the future, comparatively speaking.
Jesus came and taught the people
upon this land; He came here and
ministered repeatedly. The Book of
Mormon tells us that He came oft,
and broke bread with the Saints here.

and instructed them and testified to
them; on one occasion He came and
told them to gather together their sick,
afflicted and distressed, and bring
them before Him and He healed them.
He made a business of it, as Joseph
Smith went through the land of Nauvoo or Commerce and Montrose healing every one who was sick, of the
people of God, and as the Savior
wished to do in the land of Palestine.
There He complained that He could
not do many mighty works because
of their unbelief; but here
on the land of America, He found
a greater measure of faith. He
called together the people and healed
their sick and distressed. On
another occasion He blessed their little
ones, and those little ones spoke and
uttered things incomprehensible to
mortals, and angels came down and
surrounded them, and ministered unto
them. And while the Savior Himself
began with a degree of fearfulness
concerning their unbelief, before He got
through He said: "Now My joy is
full." Yes, this great Redeemer, the
author of life and immortality, came
over to this land and labored among
the Nephites, and said here, what we
have no account of His saying .in
that other land, at any time: "Now,
My joy is full." On the contrary, on
the other land, He sorrowed and He
wept because of their unbelief and
their hardness of heart, and He couldn't
do many mighty miracles amung
them because of their unbelief. Thus
we have a Savior that has gone
through the grave, a Redeemer that has
triumphed victoriously over hell, and
the grave; and it is said the last enemy
that shall be destroyed will be death.
We see, then, that the Latter-day
Saints have not only the advantages
of the Holy Ghost here, and the power
of faith; but O, the love that fills our
hearts when we hear the pure principles of the Gospel taught to us! How
happy we have felt as we sat together while the Apostles ministered
unto us the bread of life. How joyful
the people feel when they are full of
love to each other. The principle of
charity and the blessedness of the
Everlasting Gospel belong to this people as it belongs to no other people.
I rejoice greatly in this Gospel, because it opens up unto us transcendant joys, blessings and glories in the
future, which we have knowledge of,
which our Savior taught, and which
are taught to us here in our times,
and which He has condescended to
reveal again in these last days.
Think of what this Savior has done
for us here, and has gone to the
Father to intercede for us, to forgive
us of our sins, to heal us of our backslidings; and has condescended, after
the lapse of eighteen hundred years,
to come with His Father, the glorious Father. The Creator of all came
and introduced that Savior, His Son,
to the boy Joseph Smith, when fourteen years of age, and taught him to
commence a great and mighty work,
of which we are today some few of
the fruits. The Father said, "This is
my beloved Son, hear him." And the
Son taught Joseph, and sent His angels
to administer to him, to teach, to bless,
to bring forth the Book of Mormon,
and to build up the Church again,
bringing it forth out of the wilderness
through great suffering; and we ought
not to forget that the truth is a costly
article, and always has been. It has
cost the best men that have ever lived
in the flesh, their mortal lives, and
may yet again. It is a work that is
made altogether of what has been
considered as sacrifice. Indeed, the old
Prophet said, "Gather together my
Saints, unto me, they that have made
a covenant with me by sacrifice."
That is the principle upon which we
are brought together. We sacrifice
our sins, our pleasant enjoyments and
worldly lusts, and turn unto God and
serve Him.
This Sabbath day may become a very
grave question if we are to build up
the New Jerusalem. It was one of the
first things that the Lord complained
of through the prophets anciently,
that they had polluted His Sabbath,
and they had profaned it, and they
had not observed it: and when they
got so they could do these things with
impunity, they left off paying their
tithing, and the Lord told them they
had robbed God, the whole nation of
them—they had robbed Him because
they had withheld the tithing which
they owed Him. And when they
could do a few of these things, they

went on in their transgressions into
fornications, adulteries and murder,
from one step to another, to the most
heinous crimes, until, finally, they
could crucify the Lord Jesus Christ.
We must look out that we do not roll
any manner of sin as a sweet morsel
under our tongue, but strive with penitence day by day to put away from
us everything that is contrary to godliness, that would hinder the working
of the Spirit within us, that we may
be able to get grace for grace, and go
from faith to faith, until we can become pure in heart, for we are assured
in the word of the Lord that nothing
that is unholy or impure can enter
into His presence. What a saying!
No wonder the brethren said to Him,
"Lord, are there any that shall be
saved?" when we look at the touchstone, look at the criterion, look at the
rule by which these things have to
be brought about. And we should labor continually, striving to subdue
ourselves and to put away the vices,
the sins and the besetments that do
so daily and so easily beset us, until
we bring this living body of clay into
the subjection of the Spirit, that our
souls may live.
The Sabbath is the day that the
Lord has appointed for a time of
rest. He says that H^ finished His work, and that He rested
on the Sabbath day, the seventh day.
When the Lord came, in His day, He
instituted the first day of the week,
and ever since then it has been "His
day," and He says, that we may keep
ourselves unspotted from the world,
we are required to meet together on
His day and offer our sacraments, and
make our acknowledgements, and our
confessions, paying our devotions to
the Most High. It is a common thing
for the people to violate that sacred
law concerning the Sabbath day.
Many of the people, if they go on a
journey, take pains in their calculation to make the Sabbath count
one day in the trip; and many things
are put off for Sunday especially. I
would like to have it taken up with the
people, and have the women make calculations on Saturday, and have the
food cooked on that day, for the Sunday, and then go to meeting, instead of roasting over the stove cooking, and see to having a little more
leisure and good instruction, and feed
the soul, instead of being so much at
work and having so much to do on
that day. The Lord said to Israel:
"Six days shalt thou labor and do all
thy work, for on the seventh day, the
Lord thy God rested from His labors;
and thou shalt not do any work.neither
thy son nor thy daughter,nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy
cattle, nor the stranger that is within
thy gates." Now it was a strict rule
and law and commandment to Israel
anciently, and you will find if you will
look into the Book of Mormon that it
was so there, and is going to become
just as binding upon God's people in all
time as it ever was with them, and we
ought to be looking to it and practicing on it, so that we can do right, so
as to be able to do the right thing
when we get to it.
I testify to you, my brethren and
sisters, that this Gospel is the Gospel
of all others on the earth, the only one
that is worthy the attention of mortals,
as fast as it can be brought to their
consideration. And as we haVe been
blessed to learn these principles and
to know them, and to know of the
things of the future, and to know of
some things of the past, we have reason to rejoice above all other people,
and we have reason to deny ourselves
of all unrighteousness just as fast as
we can, and to learn the way of life
and to hearken to the counsels of those
that are called of God and to walk in
His ways, and to receive continually
the word of the Lord and His direction
in all our affairs. I rejoice greatly in
the work of the Lord, and I pray that
His blessings may abound unto the
people, that He may incline our hearts
to keep His laws, to walk in His ways,
for the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimonies of
the Lord are sure, and they even
make wise the simple.
Now a word about the Priesthood
and its restoration: Think of it!
This same Lord and Savior, Jesus
Christ, ordained Joseph Smith and
Oliver Cowdery Apostles by Peter,
James and John, His servants. Joseph
and Oliver having received this
apostleship, confirmed it upon twelve
brethren of the Church, and those

brethren have conferred it upon us
who are in the stand today; thus some
of us received this holy apostleship but
the fourth in succession from Jesus
Christ. And the fact is that the
Priesthood has come down to us as the
Lord promised when He said He would
be with His Apostles always "even
unto the end of the world." And He
says to us concerning Peter, James
and John: "Whom I have sent unto
you, by whom I have ordained you
and confirmed you to be Apostles, and
especial witnesses of my name, and
bear the keys of your ministry, and of
the same things which I reveal unto
them; unto whom I have committed
the keys of My kingdom, and a dispensation of the Gospel for the last
days and for the last times; and for
the dispensation of the fullness of times
in the which I will gather together in
one all things both which are in heaven
and which are on earth." These are
the men that have received this Priesthood—these that sit around me this
morning. It was received from those
resurrected men that have come to labor with us. This is the Priesthood
by which we officiate, and it is not
something that has come down through
the ages and been lost. This is the
Priesthood that was taken away into
the wilderness anciently, and has been
restored in these latter-days in its
purity, in its simplicity and its power,
And those who give themselves to it
fully and faithfully in all humility, receiving the instructions and counsels
of those holding that Priesthood, should
be worthy of all acceptation, and we
ought to realize it and avail ourselves
of the benefit of it, and be found in
no case speaking against each other
or the Lord's anointed.
May the Lord give us His Spirit, intensify it in us, in our hearts, and train
us in the principles of righteousness
and truth, and help and inspire us in
every good word and work, and then
He will do better for us than we know
how to ask or even to think. Amen.