ELDER SEYMOUR B. YOUNGA visit to the Irrigation Congress—Old landmarks—The Missionary field.
My brethren and sisters, I was informed this afternoon when I first
came into the building, that the brethren with whom I associate in the Council of the Seventies had had the honor
and privilege of speaking this forenoon; so I thought that they had done
my part as well as theirs. Nevertheless, I acknowledge that I am honored
to stand before you in this vast assembly, and if I do not have the Spirit
of the Lord to impress me with something to say, my standing here will
have been in vain; for without that influence that comes from the Holy
Spirit, as was truly said here yesterday, no man can edify this vast congregation.
I had the pleasure of visiting the Irrigation congress in the town of
Lincoln, Nebraska. That is the town
where the state prison is located,
where my fellow laborer, Brother
George Reynolds, was kept in durance
vile for a short time for the Gospel's
sake. I did not know the exact cell
that he occupied, or I should have
visited it. But I rejoice, for more than
one reason, for the privilege of visiting the city of Lincoln. It lies about
fifty miles from the main line of the
Union Pacific, which is located on the
old Pioneer road on which Brigham
Young and his Pioneer band traveled
on their way to Salt Lake valley fifty
years ago. As I journeyed over the
plains, I could locate many old camping places that we used to stop at
during our transit across these arid regions by mule and ox teams, years
before the railroad was established.
During our session of the Irrigation
congress, no person from Idaho, or
from Arizona, said anything about irrigation, and that was the avowed
theme that we all expected to talk
about, read about and write about during the congress. There seems to be an
idea that irrigation started somewhere
in the state of Ohio. I am not really
informed as to whether they associate
that fact (which is not a fact, however,) with the original home of the
Mormons in that state. Then they
drift along the lines into Nebraska;
and one of their foremost publications,
after the coming congress had been
located at the city of the plains,
known as Cheyenne, published an item
on the following morning to the effect that it was a great mistake to hold
the Irrigation congress at Cheyenne;
it ought to have been located at Chicago, the central place of the irrigation
district, Cheyenne being on the extreme
western limit of that district. The western portion of the congress unitedly
favored Cheyenne for the coming season, where the congress will no doubt
be held, as it was so decided by the
congress ;andl believe that some idea of
the irrigation system and the plan by
which the pioneers and their followers
were so successful in wringing bread
and other necessaries of life from the
desert region upon which they located,
will no doubt be more fully understood
or at least discussed in that congress.
We had a very pleasant time, however,
and were greeted with great kindness
•and shown great respect, not only by
the members of that congress, but by
the citizens of Lincoln. The governor
gave us a reception and ball the evening after my arrival, in which we were
greeted and feted to our heart's content. Nebraska's people are something
like our own people: they evinced by
their language and by their hearty
welcome accorded to us the true western hospitality.
While there I hunted up the missionary headquarters of the Nebraska
conference, and visited with the sister who keeps the house and four of
the Elders who are located in that district. I enjoyed myself very much in
this association. I was invited very
cordially to remain over a few days
and attend their conference; but I had

a kind of longing to" be present at this
greater gathering, and on that account,
and some others of minor importance,
I hurried home.
I rejoice because I have a testimony
to bear of the truth of the Gospel and
of the organization of the Holy Priesthood upon the earth, and seeing so
many of my brethren and sisters together this afternoon who, like myself,
have the testimony and the witness for
God in their hearts and shining
through their countenances. By the
spirit which is in the house, I judge
that you have come together for the
purpose of being fed and strengthened
and built up in your most holy faith.
I rejoice that we have had a great
celebration during the Twenty-fourth
of July and the days previous. A
great deal of information concerning
this people has been scattered abroad
throughout this continent, especially
the western and the eastern states,
through representatives which they
had here—newspaper reporters and
publishers, and prominent men—during
that celebration; and the fame of the
Latter-day Saints will continue to
spread over the land.
A gentleman asked me, during a recess of the congress, how many Elders
we had in the missionary field. I told
him that we had something more than
twelve hundred at this present time.
He said it would almost seem incredible that the Mormon people, so small
in numbers as they were and so isolated as they had been for many years
from their neighbors upon the Bast,
could possibly have so many Elders in
the field preaching the tenets of their
faith. But I assured him it was a
fact. He asked me how they were
traveling, and how they were supported from day to day. I informed him
that many of them traveled as did the
ancient disciples and Apostles of the
Lord Jesus, without purse and without
scrip, trusting in the kindness of the
people and in the spirit that prompted
them, to win the hearts of those among
whom they traveled, that they might
be ministered unto, and be fed and
clothed. The gentleman said that
this was another feature of the disciples who associated with our Lord and
Savior in His ministry, and one that
was worthy of commendation in any
religious denomination, and one which
he thought was calculated to try
the faith of those who traveled in this
condition. I said that it did not require the wealth of great religious denominations, or the wealth of individuals, to spread the Gospel of the Lord
Jesus Christ; that one living witness,
with a testimony of the truth in his
heart, could go forth and win his way
among the people, and preach the Gospel to thousands; and the few that
would embrace these principles,in their
turn became witnesses for God; ana
the Gospel was continuously spread in
this manner. Granting that to be true,
said he, how much greater is your
chance for spreading the Gospel with
twelve hundred missionaries constantly
in the field.
I bear witness that Joseph Smith
was a prophet of God; that the organization of the Holy Priesthood is correct and true today, and after the ancient pattern; and that if we are faithful to the truth and to the trust committed to us, we shall not fail of salvation; for the Lord has promised it to
us, and He never fails. God bless you,
my brethren and sisters, and increase
your faith and your power to do good,
is my prayer in the name of Jesus.
Amen.

