PREST. WILFORD WOODRUFF.
CLOSING REMARKS.
It is time to close this conference;
but before closing I want to say a few
words to the Latter-day Saints. I have
attended conferences under the presidency of Joseph Smith during his life
time, from 1833; I have attended conferences under President Brigham
Young nearly forty years, from the
time of the death of Joseph Smith until his own death; I have attended
conferences under the presidency of
John Taylor, and I have attended
confei-ences as President of the Church
myself since that period. That responsibility has rested upon me, and
rests upon me today. Sixty-four
years of my life have passed away as
a member of this Church. I do not
know that I shall ever address you


again; I cannot tell anything about
this; but I feel strongly impressed to
say a few words to you upon principle, although it is late.
I want these Latter-day Saints to
lay to heart what has been said to you
by the Apostles and Elders who have
spoken at this Conference. I want
to say another thing. I prophesy, in
the name of Israel's God, the day has
come when the mouths of Wilford
Woodruff, George Q. Cannon, Joseph
F. Smith, and these Twelve Apostles,
should not be closed because of the
opinions of the children of men. There
have been feelings that these men
holding high positions—the Twelve
Apostles and Presidency—should say
nothing about politics. I want to say
to you here, the day has come when
God Almighty requires at your hands
to unite together in your temporal
business, and in your politics, so far
as it is wisdom. I do not care whether
a man is a Republican or a Democrat,
in that he is free; but it is your duty
to unite in electing good men to govern and control your cities, your local
affairs, and I will state that when you
do not do this you are losers of the
blessings of Almighty God. I
want to tell you this upon
this occasion. My mouth shall
not be closed upon these
principles. I know it is the duty of the
Latter-day Saints to unite together
in your local affairs, the election of
your city councils, the election of men
to act for you in the affairs of state.
Lay aside your extremes in democracy and republicanism, as far as is
wise in that matter, and in other than
local matters as Latter-day Saints
unite together within your party lines
and appoint good men. When you do
that, God will bless you. You won't
all be taxed to death and lose your
property, if you will appoint good men
and pursue this course.
I take the liberty, as President of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, of making these remarks. No
matter what the feelings of men may
be towards me; I shall not stay in this
country very long. But I realize
very well that this people are groaning
under poverty, under affliction, under
taxation, and in positions that they
ought not to be if they would.only unite
together and do their duty. And this
idea of a person being afraid of somebody because he is a Democrat or a
Republican, it is all wrong. I feel
like saying to you, as the President
of this Church, and do state, that it
is your duty to unite together and appoint good men to act in every capacity for the public welfare. Therefore
let us do our duty, walk uprightly before the Lord our God, and leave the
consequences with Him. "Do what ic
right, let the consequences follow;"
which may God grant, for Christ's
sake. Amen.


