ELDER ANTHON H. LUND.
Missionary Work Effective.— Good Effect of Conferences.—Object of the SaiDts to Build up Zion
I am pleased to have the privilege
this morning of meeting with you, my
brethren and sisters, and of hearing
our President address us. I am glaa
that he is with us and able to talk so
that we can all hear him. This has
been our Jubilee year—fifty .years
since we arrived in these mountains,
and we have all reflected more or
less upon the history of Zion since
the people arrived here when this region was a wilderness. We have
made comparisons between today and
then, and all have, no doubt, felt to
thank the Lord that He has so richly
blessed His people, and though
they have gone through times of trial,
yet they have seen His overruling
providences in their behalf. Zion has
prospered; the people have been
blessed, both temporally and spiritually; and while they have tried to
build up Zion at home, they have not
forgotten the great duty resting upon
them of sending men to the different
nations to preach the Gospel. And
the Lord has been with them, so that
they have been able to bring thousands into the fold of Christ. The
best of reports are coming to us from
the different missions, showing that the
Lord is still with His servants, and
that their efforts are crowned with
more success than has attended their
labors for many years past. This makes
us rejoice, seeing the work of God
prospering.
We have come together this morning to attend our Conference. I have
often thought what a great blessing
to the Saints are these conferences,
bringing them together from the
different parts of Zion, to where they
can renew their old acquaintances,
and where they can meet together
under the spirit and influence of the
Lord, and listen to instructions given
them which are calculated for their
best good. These are times of refreshing unto the Saints. And this is not
something which has been evolved out
of the system that God has revealed;
but it was at first ordained and appointed unto the Saints to come together on these occasions. There is
this difference between the work of
God and the work of man—the worK
of God has a perfect Author, what
He commands is not an experimental
thing, but is something that was seen
beforehand. The consequences were
known before the law was given. By
studying the word of God as given
through His prophets, we find that He
knew as well thousands of years ago
what was for the best good of His
people as today, and that when the
prophets spoke of Zion they saw it,
understood how it should be built, and
could foretell the Lord's dealings
with His people.
We have come to this country to
build up a Zion unto our God. I hope
that we have not forgotten the object
of our coming. I hope that we can be
classed among the laborers in Zion.
The Lord has declared that the laborer in Zion shall work for Zion, and he
adds, "if they labor for money, they
shall perish." I believe it is the
Prophet Nephi who wrote these words.
He wrote them in a chapter
that is devoted to our time. After
having described what should come to
pass between his day and the present
period of time, he speaks of the com-

ing forth of the Book of Mormon and
of Zion. I have often thought how
strange it is that men cannot see the
internal evidence which the Book of
Mormon contains of its truth, when
they can read passages so plain.
The idea of building up a Zion was
not a common idea among the different
denominations that Joseph Smith was
acquainted with. Men have thought
that Mormonism is a system, made up
of other religions. We deny this. We
hold that it is given of God; that it is
the same Gospel, the everlasting Gospel, as given in former days to the
people, and again restored today.
When you examine the Gospel as
restored through the Prophet Joseph,
you find that it has many characteristics which are not found among
other denominations or religions.
The idea of gathering was not believed in by any of the religious people then; but in the Book of Mormon,
published before this Church was organized, we are plainly told that there
should be a gathering; that the people should be gathered from the different nations of the earth.
The Prophet Nephi, in speaking of
Zion, gives us characteristics that
should be found in the Zion of the
latter days. Among them was that
there should not be priestcraft; and
he defines priestcraft as preaching for
gain and for influence among the people. This the Lord forbids. He says
that the people should work for
Zion. That should be the object of
their coming together, the one aim
and purpose of their lives—to work for
Zion, and not to make anything else
the object of their lives. If they make
money their object, He says they shall
perish. How often have we seen this
fulfilled! Those who have forgotten
why the Lord called them from their
homes and gathered them here, and
who have made money their
sole object, have perished spiritually; they have lost the
faith which was once so strong in
their breasts that they were able to
leave everything that was dear unto
them and gather here. We want to
take this lesson to heart. We want to
be laborers in Zion, and work for the
cause of Zion, and not for other objects—that is, not to make them the
only objects of our lives. It is not forbidden us to work for money. We
have to do this, to make our living;
but the Prophet meant that we must
not make it the sole aim of our
lives, to enrich ourselves and gain
wealth. The love of money is the root
of all evil, has been said, and said truly.
Not the money itself; for rightly used,
I believe it is a blessing. But I am
afraid that many are not willing to
use this blessing aright. We certainly
should not make it the one thing that
we seek. We want to place our labors
where they can do the most good for
the upbuilding of Zion upon the
earth. If we seek first the kingdom or
God and His righteousness, these
other things, He has promised, shall
be added. We have found the kingdom of God; but we want also His
righteousness. That means that we
do right in all things between man
and man, and that we do not forgec
to do right towards our Heavenly
Father, and also towards ourselves.
The Lord has asked us to do certain
things. We will find that they are for
our own good. These commandments
have been given by a kind Father to
His children. He has seen our conditions and our circumstances, and
what He has ordained has been calculated for our greatest benefit. When
such is the case, we should all feel that
we want to keep His commandments.
We want to benefit ourselves. In
fact, this feeling is so strong with us
that often we forget what is righteousness, on. account of our selfishness.
But if we will work truly for our own
benefit, then we will keep the laws of
God, we will seek His righteousness,
we will try to build up His Zion upon
the earth, and we will listen to the
counsels which He gives us through
His servants. If we do this, the greatest amount of happiness will be ours,
and we will be able to do our share
towards carrying out God's purposes
on the earth.
May God bless His Saints. May His
kingdom prosper. May His servants
be blessed in their labors. This is rriy
prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.