ELDER JONATHAN G. KIMBALL
Labors in the Soutl—The Mutual Improvement
cause—Necessity of study and reflection—The
great sin of uochastity.
I feel very humble, my brethren and
sisters. I have discovered in my short
career that I don't amount to very
much; that all that I have tried to
do within myself I have failed in. The
only blessing of real comfort that I
have received is in laboring in the
ministry. Some men are more easily
tired than others, and as far as
t am concerned. I desire to be
free in what I say, and I hope
that I may be moved upon by
the Holy Ghost, for I can testify to the
children of men that I know what the
Holy Ghost is, that is, I know what its
influence is. I know that I have felt
that joy, that peace, that satisfaction,
that burning within me that comes
from the influence of the Spirit of the
Lord.
I have labored for the past six
weeks in company with Apostle Lyman through the southern part of the
State, largely in the interests of the
Young
"
Men's Mutual Improvement
Association, and I discover in associating among the people that there is a
great missionary work to be performed
here at home. There are something
over twenty-five thousand young men,
from fourteen up to my age, and only
a very small percentage of that number are laboring earnestly and ardently to gain information and knowl-
, edge pertaining to this great work.
Talk about your missionary fields of
labor, talk about the nations of the
earth; I comprehend that the angel
came with its message that the Gospel might be preached to every nation,
to every kindred, to every tongue and
people; but I want to testify to you,
my brethren and sisters, that the rising generation at home are being
neglected. They are not being reached
by the Priesthood of God; and if there
is any place on the great earth where
there needs an awakening and an uplifting, it is right here in Zion, and, I
want to say to you, the fathers and
the mothers are helpless, and they
know not what to do. I know the
cause, too, and the sin will rest upon
the parents. They have not followed
this counsel, to instruct their children
when they are young. President
George Q. Cannon said we were in
bondage, to a certain extent, because
we had not followed counsel, and I
want to testify that it is true, and I
want to say that there is a great sin
resting upon some of the fathers and
mothers, because they have not
taught their children faith, repentance, baptism, and the reception of
the Holy Ghost when they were eight
years old, and they are now reaping
the sorrow of their neglect. We neea
missionaries. I take the position that
we need one hundred to start out with,
to commence this mission here at
home; and I don't know, before they
get through with it, but they will
have to preach on the street corners
like the Elders do in the states and
in Europe.
A part of our labors in the southern
part of the State were in the interest
of a new magazine; for the general
board of the Young Men's Associations
have discovered that it is absolutely
impossible to reach the four hundred
and ninety-one associations in the
Church without a magazine. But in
that number of associations, we have
16,580 young men that are enrolled,
with an attendance, perhaps, of eight
thousand. There is something like ten
thousand that are not enrolled, and
this missionary work must be begun.
In our associating among the people, we discovered, and I want to testify to what one of the brethren spoke
in reference to that matter, that
our people are not a reading peo-

pie, they do not diligently read the
Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants. I
want to say to you that I was so surprised that I have not language to express it, when we discovered how few
of our people, with the numerous hosts
of children, there are that are taking
the Juvenile Instructor. Why, we
found places where a few years ago
they took thirty or forty Juveniles, in
some instances they are only taking
three or four now. If that is not proof
enough that they are not reading, why,
I don't know what other proof you
want. We have, however been sustained by the people of the south, and
in the Stakes of St. George, and Kanab, and Panguitch, and Parowan we
have met with a very kindly reception;
and I believe there has been a reawakening.
But I want to say to the people,
if you will permit me, something I
have on my mind here. I would like
to read to you a little from the Doctrine, and Covenants, to show you the
condition that we are in, some of
us. It is a revelation given to
Oliver Cowdery. It seems that he had
the gift of translation, and he was
somewhat impatient; and the Lord
spoke to him in this manner— and I
want to apply this to the rising generation, I want to apply it to the Latter-day Saints, from the age of fourteen to ninety—we expect all of them
to join the Young Men's Association
between those ages, and as Apostle
Lyman said, there is not anybody
permitted to join the association who
is older than President Woodruff.
We believe that men who are aged
should study just as much as young
men. I want to ask the Latter-day
Saints if that is a true doctrine, that
when a man gets old he should quit
learning and stop studying, and cease
to progress. I want to read you what
the Lord has said in this line, speaking
to Oliver Cowdery: "Behold, you have
not understood. You have supposed
that I would give it unto you when
you took no thought save it was to
ask." Have you misunderstood, my
brethren and sisters? Have you fancied that all you have to do is to ask
and you shall receive, knock and it
shall be opened unto you, and if you
lack wisdom, ask of God who giveth
to all men liberally and upbraideth not,
and that you can sit down and make
no other effort? As one of the brethren expressed it: "I fancy that the
minds of some of us are chloroformed,"
and we have imagined that we would
be saved in our ignorance, when the
Lord has said, "Whatever intelligence
you attain unto in this life will rise
with you in the resurrection." Now
He taught this lesson to Oliver Cowdery: "But, behold I say unto you,
that you must study it out in your
mind. Then you must ask me if it
be right; and if it is right, I will cause
that your bosom shall burn within
you; therefore you shall feel that it
is right." Now these are the last days-,
spoken of by the prophets; these are
the "perilous times." And I want tosay to you that mountains of obstructions will be placed before this people,,
and if you have not been tried, you:
will be; if you have not been tested,,
you will be, before you gain eternal
life. And before we pass our opinion
unwisely, as we do, it is well for us
to "study it out in our minds."
I am fearful that some of the Latterday Saints simply come to the leaders
and listen to the servants of God, and
they never study it out in their minds;
they never go to the written word,
and compare it with the servants of
God in their doctrines and teachings,
and consequently they are unable
to judge righteously, and they are
losing confidence. Their confidence is
being shaken, and they are unable to
judge, because they have not first
studied it out in their minds, because,
as a people, we are mentally lazy. I
will say that, because I do not expect
to preach here again for a long time.
If any of us have got a bad taste in our
mouth for anything that has transpired, why, let us repent, let us study
it out in our minds, and then go to
our Father, in humility, and ask Him if
it is right, and if it is right He will
cause a burning within our bosoms,
and we shall know that it is right;
but if it be not right, we shall have
no such feelings, but we shall have a
stupor of thought. And how greatly
blessed are we in that direction! We
are all blessed, more or less, with a
stupor of thought.
But I pray the Lord to bless this people. Why, you are a wonderful peo-

pie. The Lord has blessed you as
He has blessed no other people. He
has given you the Holy Ghost. Remember how particular He was with
His Apostles, with His servants that
He sent out to preach the Gospel. He
promised them the Holy Ghost, "whom
the world cannot receive," and we are
in a different situation to what the
world is. As Paul says: 'What!
-
know ye not that ye are the temples
of the Holy Ghost, and that ye are not
your own; and if any man defile the
temple of God, him shall God destroy,
for the temple of God is holy, which
temple ye are." Now I want to say
to you people, in soberness, and with
consideration—I don't want to be an
alarmist, I don't want to be a revivalist; but I want to say to you, the great
sin that is creeping in among this people, together with other worldly sins, is
the sin of adultery. This is creeping
in amongst us, and in some instances
our dau-hters are running the streets
as common harlots, and we, seemingly, cannot help ourselves. But I want
to say to you, there needs be an awakening. I want to tell you there needs
to be a fear planted in the hearts of
the youn~ people. Take the Book of
Mormon. Go to the 316th page, and
read what Alma said to his son Corianton, who had left the ministry, and
had followed after the harlot Isabel.
He told him what a terrible crime
adultery was, that it was next to the
shedding of innocent blood. O, I am
fearful that our young people do not
compreherM that great sin that is
creeping in amongst us; and, as the
Prophet Joseph said, a man that commits adultery cannot enter into the
celestial kingdom of God. If he enters any kingdom, it will not be the
celestial kingdom of God. I pray that
our people may be moved upon to be
a virtuous, to be an honest, to be a
faithful people; this is the prayer of
my heart, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.

