ELDER JOHN W. TAYLOR.
The Written Word Insufficient, Prophets Kaised
up at Different Periods,—God has Revealed Himself also in those Last Times.
Dear brethren and sisters and
friends: I pray that the Spirit of the
Lord may direct me in what I shall
say this morning. I feel to bear testimony, to commence with, to the truth
of the remarks that have been made
by those who have preceded me. I desire to draw the attention of this congregation to a statement of Elder Merrill wherein he said that the living
oracles are of greater importance
than the written word. I desire to
dwell somewhat upon this point, in order to bear testimony to this position;
for it is a sweeping assertion. As
Elder Merrill made this remark, my
mind reverted back over the history
of the world and the dealings of God
the Eternal Father with the children
of men ever since the days of our
father Adam. We find in the beginning that the children of men multiplied from our forefather Adam and
became very numerous upon the earth,
and they had in their midst the written word of God. But they departed
from it. What was needful under
these circumstances? Why, it became
necessary for the Lord to raise up a
prophet, and he inspired His servant
Noah to call the people unto repentance
I mention this fact to show you that
while they had the written word of
God in their midst, yet they had all
departed from it. They needed the living word. As the prophet says,
"the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth
life." Another ancient prophet says,
"Surely the Lord God will do nothing,
but He revealeth His secret unto His
servants the prophets." Under the
circumstances that I have alluded to,
it was necessary for the Lord to raise
up a mighty prophet, and Noah therefore began to preach the Gospel of repentance unto that people. He preached
for about 120 years—with what success you all know who have read the
scriptures. Eight souls, including
himself, were saved in the ark.
Then when these eight souls began
to multiply and replenish the earth
and they became a great and numerous people, while all the dealings of
God with His people were carefully
recorded and the word of God, as far
as it was written, was handed down
to them, was that sufficient to save
and to guide them? No. It was
necessary for the Lord to raise up
another prophet; and various prophets
in turn were raised up. But the people went so far away from the truth
that they became idolatrous and offered hnman sacrifice. While the
Lord had given them commandments
concerning the principle of atonement
by the blood of animals, etc., they began to enlarge upon God's law and instituted the practice of offering human
sacrifices. The Lord was very much
displeased with this. Nevertheless
they had the written word before them,
but they gave no heed to it. It became
necessary to raise up a mighty prophet.
Therefore, the Lord came down in the
midst of these idolaters and appeared
unto Abraham, who was the son of
Terah by his second wife. The Lord
had respect to Abraham, for he was
a good man, and He said unto Abraham:
"Get thee out of thy country, and
from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will
show thee:
"And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make
thy name great; and tfcou shalt be
a blessing:
"And I will bless them that bless
thee, and curse him that curseth thee:
and in thee shall all families of the
earth be blessed."
The Lord commanded Abraham to
leave his father's house, because his
father, Terah, was preparing to offer
him as a sacrifice unto his god.
Here is another instance where you
will see the necessity of the Lord revealing himself and raising up a
prophet, because all the children of
men had gone into idolatry and had
gone astray from the plan of life and
salvation which the Lord had previously revealed unto them. Nevertheless
they had the written word in their
midst. Did the written word save
them? No. Would the written word
have accomplished the object of turning that great people from idolatry?
No. What was necessary? It was
necessary to do just what was done
—for our Father in heaven to come and
make a personal visit to Abraham.


Afterwards the Lord said, in speaking of Abraham, "I know him, that he
will command his children and his
household after him, and they shall
keep the way of the Lord, to do justice and judgment." Therefore, He
pronounced upon him the great blessing—that his posterity should become
as innumerable as the stars in heaven
and as countless as the sands
upon the seashore. When the
children of God understand true
wealth and that which will make
them as God, they will find it
in presiding over their posterity in
their turn, as our Father is now presiding over His, and in the fact that
they have wives and children, their
posterity increasing and multiplying,
and the principle of the continuation
of lives committed unto them for ever
and ever.
I desire to pass along a little further.
The children of Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob began to increase and multiply
upon the face of the earth, and became
a great people. Nevertheless they fell
short of keeping the commandments
that the Lord had given unto them.
But they had the written word in their
midst. Did that save them? No, it
did not. They went into bondage unto the Egyptians. What was the matter? Was it ^hat there was nothing
written in regard to the dealings of
God with His people prior to their day
that they were in this dreadful condition? No. It was because they had
transgressed the laws, changed the ordinances,and had turned away from the
laws of life and salvation. Under
these circumstances, what was necessary? It was necessary to raise up
a man who could communicate with
God the Eternal Father. Again the
written word failed to save the people. The Lord appeared unto Moses
in the burning bush, and commanded
him to go forth and call to his assistance his brother Aaron, and say unto
Pharaoh, in the name of the Lord, to
let His people go forth into the wilderness. Would the written word ever
have prevailed upon King Pharaoh
to release the people of Israel? No.
It was necessary for the Lord to show
forth His mighty power in bringing
upon that people the plagues of the
earth, according to the voice of His
servant Moses, whom He had inspired.
It was necessary also for the Lord to
smite down the first-born of all the
Egyptians. Would the written word
have accomplished that? Moses went
forth, after having conversed with
God, filled with a portion of His Spirit
and power. He did not go forth with
the written word of something that
had transpired in the days of Noah,
saying, Behold,Noah was called of God
to preach righteousness, and the people did not repent; therefore they
were destroyed with a flood. -.o;
King Pharaoh undoubtedly was acquainted with the history of the world,
but that had no more effect upon him
than the blowing of the wind. But
when the Prophet Moses came into his
presence, and the plagues were
poured out, one by one, upon the people, according to the will of God as
predicted by His servant Moses, he
began to soften in his heart. Finally,
when the firstborn of Egypt were destroyed, the Israelites had time
enough to get out into the wilderness;
but they had no sooner got out than
they were immediately followed by
the hosts of Pharaoh.
I mention this to show you the necessity of another prophet being
raised up. I tell you there might have
lived in ages past hundreds and thousands of prophets, but that is not sufficient for the day and age in which
we live. I will pass on rapidly, for
I have only four minutes left in which
to speak; but I desire to talk to the
subject as well as to the "mark" while
I am on my feet.
There is another remarkable circumstance I wish to refer to. The
Lord our God desired that a mighty
temple should be built unto His high
and holy name, after the days of
which I have spoken. Was there anything in what the Lord had said to
the Prophet Noah, or to the Prophet
Abraham, or to the Prophet Isaac, or
to the Prophet Jacob, that would
teach the children of men how to build
a temple unto God? No; there was no
written word of this kind. What was
necessary, therefore? It was necessary that the Lord our God should
reveal His mind and will unto His
servant the Prophet, that he might
know how to build a temple; and He
raised up a man to build a temple unto the name of God. This was King
Solomon. A little later on we find an-

other peculiar circumstance which
transpired, verifying the ideas of
Elder Merrill in his testimony here
today. We find that King Nebuchadnezzar had a dream concerning some
of the future history of this world,
portraying what the mind and will of
God was concerning some things
down even to the day and age in
which we live. But the dream went
from him, and he wanted this dream
brought back to his mind with the interpretation thereof. Could he by
reading the instructions of God to
Solomon as to how to build a temple
learn how to bring that dream back
again to his mind? No; it was necessary for the Lord to call upon His
servant Daniel, who went forth, and
by the power of the Holy Ghost he
told the dream and gave its interpretation to Nebuchadnezzar.
I tell you the changing scenes of
life are such that we need men, living
men, that are inspired of God. As
Christ said to the devil, when he
tempted Him, "Man shall not live by
bread alone, but by every word that
proceedeth out of the mouth of God."
I desire, my friends, to bear this testimony unto you. Let me quote from
the 12th chapter of Paul's first epistle
to the Corinthians, and pass by all
the remarkable circumstances wherein God the Eternal Father had to continually keep raising up Prophets and
Seers, in order to straighten the people out; for the history of this world
shows that just as soon as the people
have a little time to multiply and to
increase, they have turned away from
the word of God. When Christ came,
He instituted a peculiar system
among the children of men, and Paul
speaks of some things that He es~
tablished in His Church.
"God hath set some in the Church,
first Apostles, secondarily Prophets,
thirdly Teachers, after that miracles,
then gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues."
In his epistle to the Ephesians, Paul
also speaks on this subject. He says:
"And he gave some, Apostles; and
some, Prophets; and some, Evangelists; and some, Pastors and Teachers;
"For the perfecting of the Saints, for
the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ:
"That we henceforth be no more
children, tossed to and fro, and carried
about with every wind of doctrine, by
the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive."
We are told also in the same epistle
that God has placed these in the
church "till we all come in the unity
of the faith." I ask you, my friends,
have we come to a unity of the faith
in the world? We are divided, and subdivided, into hundreds of sects and
parties. Then what is necessary?
Why, as in the other circumstances to
which I have referred, it is necessary
that the Lord our God should raise up
a mighty prophet, to correct the children of men in this great error which
they are making all over the world.
And in accordance with this necessity,
the Lord has in this time, as in all
ages, come to the rescue, and He has
raised up the Prophet Joseph Smith,
as a prophet, seer and revelator.
He came down and communicated
His mind and will unto the Prophet
Joseph in person, as He did unto
our father Abraham, and unto
Jacob, and unto Moses; and He
has commanded, as President Woodruff has said here today, that this Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached
in all the world, for a witness to all
nations, and then shall the end come.
Is not all the sectarian world today
praying, "Our Father who art in heaven, thy kingdom come.and thy will be
done?" Let me say unto you, my dear
friends, when it does come it will
come with apostles, with prophets,
with inspired men, with men who are
raised up as men were in olden times.
Peter said, "If any man speak, let him
speak as the oracles of God." In those
days they spake not as the Scribes and
Pharisees, but as men having authority. They spake not according to the
will of man, but whatsoever was revealed unto them that spake they unto
the children of men.
God bless you, my dear friends, and
lead you into the ways of all truth.
May He pour out His Holy Spirit upon
every soul that is in this Conference,
that the Latter-day Saints may be
made to rejoice, and that those who
are not of us may be pricked in their
hearts and come to a knowledge of

the truth, that we may all be saved
and exalted in His kingdom, is my
prayer, in tl.e name of Jesus Christ.
Amen.

