ELDER MARRINER W. MERRILL.
The Divine Origin of the Church,— Officers not
Self-appointed,— Profanity Condemned,—Obedience Brings Harmony,—Each May Have a Witness of the Truth,—A Prediction Fulfilled,—
Safety in Counsel.
I have an evidence of the truth of
this work. I have a testimony from
the Lord. I know that this work is
true. I know that Joseph the Prophet
was chosen as an instrument in the
hands of the Lord to establish the
Gospel in the earth in this dispensation. I had evidence of this a great
.many years ago. It has been over
forty-four years since I became associated with the Saints in these mountains, and I have been like the rest
of you, I have had my trials, my dark
times, and periods of affliction and
sorrow. I believe that all Saints have
their trials, if they are trying to do
right and serve the Lord. The Spirit
of the Lord has not always been with
me. I have been left to myself many
times. But in these times of trial,
the testimony that I had from the
Lord of the truth, of the divinity of
this work has been a great consolation to me. I have not lost it yet.
I hope I may never lose it. I believe
it is possible for people to lose the
testimony and evidence they have had
in regard to this work, and to get into
the dark, and become dissatisfied, and
complain and find fault with the
brethren. I have always looked upon
it as a very dangerous thing for a
member of the Church to find fault
with the servants of God, to criticise
the actions of the Priesthood, because
in my experience here with the people
I have witnessed many, apparently
good men and good women, turn away
from the Church through indulging in
this spirit of fault-finding and criticising the actions of the Priesthood.
Now, we must remember that there
is not a single officer in the Church
who has selected himself. There
is not one of the Presidency, nor one
of the Apostles, that has sought the
position he occupies today. These
men have not desired the position, and
have not asked for it. But the Lord,
in the dispensations of His providence,
has placed them in office in the
Church. And when we complain, and
find fault, and criticise, we must surely know that we are criticising the actions of the Lord, because He is the
one that has brought these things to
pass and placed these men in their
positions, for the reason, I suppose,
that they were the ones He wanted
to carry on His work. The officers of
this Church have been called to these
positions, and we ought to remember
this. We ought to sustain this work,
sustain the organization of the Church,
and sustain the Priesthood. Let all
other things be a secondary consideration. The Savior said, "Seek first the
kingdom of God and His righteousness." That is the first thing for us
to do; then other things will be added
unto us as we may need them. As I
said before, I know this work is true;
and if I deny the work of the Lord,
it will be because I get into the dark
and lose the spirit of it. We are liable to do this. Hence it is not safe
for a Latter-day Saint to forget his
prayers, and to forget the Lord. We
should make it the practice of our
lives to entreat the Lord in the morning, and in the evening, and at midday, and have within our hearts the
spirit of prayer.
I am aware that there are families
in the Church that neglect their
prayers. Heads of households neglect
to call their families around them and
entreat the Lord for His protecting
care over them during the day or during the night. Is there anybody under the sound of my voice that neglects to do these things? If you do,
you fail that much in living up to the
requirements of the Gospel. There
are in some parts of the Church people who profane the name of Deity.
Now, they ought to know that this
is wrong. Yet this spirit of profanity
is too prevalent in some parts of the
country. As officers and as members
of the Church,we ought to rebuke such
conduct in our brethren, and tell them
kindly that it is not a proper thing to
do. It is a bad example. It brings
the displeasure of the Lord. It drives
away the Holy Spirit, and we are not
in a position to have the heavens
opened to us, and to have our prayers
reach into the ears of the Lord. If
there are any Latter-day Saints here
that indulge in profanity, I want to
exhort you to cease from this time
forth, and turn unto the Lord with full
purpose of heart.

When we are living in the light of
the Gospel, our feelings will harmonize
with the Presidency and with the
Apostles and with the Elders that are
trying to carry on this work. I say
our spirits will harmonize with theirs,
because I want to bear record and
testimony to you that they are doing
the very best they can for the people
and for the advancement of the work
of God, and the Lord is with them
and He will bring them off victorious.
Hence the importance, my brethren
and sisters, of trying to cultivate the
spirit of humility, of meekness, and
of kindness, and attending to the labors, that pertain to us in the Gospel.
There is something for everybody to
do. We have all we can possibly do
if we live the .religion of Jesus Christ.
We cannot afford to neglect our duties
in the Gospel. Life is too short for
us to think of such a thing. We are
liable to be called to an account any
time. Scores of people that were here
at the last Conference are not here
now perhaps, because of circumstances and conditions which they
have passed through. This may be
the case with some of us who are
here. We may never come to another Conference; we may never hear
the voice of President Woodruff or
the servants of God again. We do
not know that we will, unless God has
revealed it to us. No man knoweth
the things of tomorrow, unless God
reveals them to him. We know the
things of yesterday, if we have not
forgotten them; but we do not know
of the things of tomorrow. Hence
the importance of all Latter-day
Saints living according to the light
that has been revealed to them.
Every man and woman has the right
to have a testimony of this work.
We may have the evidence for ourselves. The hands of the Elders of
the Church have been placed upon our
heads, and it has been said unto us,
"Receive ye the Holy Ghost," and we
have a right, if we have sincerely repented of our sins and turned unto the
Lord with full purpose of heart, to a
witness. My conviction is that no
man need be without a testimony of
this work, whether he be young or
old. The Lord is no respecter of persons, and we may know for ourselves,
for our private use and good. Not
that we may have revelation or a
testimony for somebody else, only for
ourselves. The heavens have been
opened, and they are open to the faithful people of God today. Our prayers
may be heard and answered, if they
are right and inspired by the Holy
Ghost. This is the privilege of the
Latter-day Saints. The world do not
have these things, because the Lord
has not revealed the Gospel to them,
only as He has done it through His
ministering servants. He has organized His Church in the earth, and the
Gospel is being preached as a witness
to the world.
How literally the words of President
Woodruff have been fulfilled that he
uttered when the Temple was dedicated! He said that the scale would
turn, and the people of the world
would be more kind to us than formerly. We have seen this verified
wherever our Elders have gone. They
find people raised up to comfort and
to bless them and to listen to them.
It is so in these United States, more
so, I presume, than it ever has been;
it is so in all the world. The words
of the servant of God have been verified in regard to these things. We
have many testimonies before our eyes
daily with regard to this work, and
woe be to the men and the people that
fight against God and against Zion!
Woe be to us who have had the truth
and have once known the light, if we
turn away from the work of God! Our
condition will be far worse than that
of those who have never heard the
Gospel.
Hence, my brethren and sisters, the
importance of our listening to the
counsel of the servants of God. We
have a perfect organization existing
throughout the Church, so that no
man or woman need be left in doubt
with regard to the counsels of the
Priesthood. We can listen to them if
we are so disposed; and we ought to
do it as much now as we ever have
done. I can remember in my experience here when, we thought it not wise
or safe to enter into enterprises or do
things without counseling with our
brethren. We thought in the midst of
counsel there was safety, and in former years we sought the counsel of
our brethren more than we do now.
Not that every man shall run to the

Presidency of the Church or to the
Apostles to get advice, because, as I
said before, the organization is complete, and you need not go far from
your own wards to get the mind of
the servants of God. If the Bishop
is not able to give the necessary counsel, the President of the Stake may be.
If he is not able to give it, he may
apply to the Presidency of the Church
for it. If this organization was considered and respected by the Saints,
everything would work harmoniously
and smoothly, and every man and
every woman would get the proper
counsel for their guidance.
I feel, my brethren and sisters, the
importance of our being humble and
consistent in our lives, in shunning
evil and the appearance of evil, and
to teach our children in a proper manner. Do you not know that it is a
very bad example for any family of
Saints to neglect their prayers before their children? The children will
grow up and they will not know what
it means to have family prayers. The
Lord has said He will be sought after,
and He said to ancient Israel that if
they would draw near unto Him, He
would draw near unto them. We need
to draw near to the Lord, that He
may draw near unto us. We need the
guidance of the Holy Spirit. We are
not able to stand alone. We need
the counsel and encouragement of
our brethren: we need the advice and
encouragement of each other. We may
think we can stand alone; we may
think we can go on our own responsibility; but we will fail in the end, because the Lord has designed that the
counsel of His Priesthood shall be
respected among the Latter-day
Saints. We ought to sustain our
Bishops, and not speak evil against
them, or against the Counselors, or
the Teachers, or the officers of the
ward. Let not our tongues be found
speaking evil against our brethren. It
tends to darkness and to sin, and will
lead whoever indulges in it out of the
Church, unless he or she repents
speedily. It is a dangerous thing to
be found criticising the authorities of
the Church—not that they are perfect
men, because no man is perfect. It is
possible that " may do wrong—that I
may give some wrong counsel; but
that can easily be corrected, because
here are the living oracles of God,
and they are worth more to the Latter-day Saints than all the Bibles, all
the Books of Mormon and all the
Books of Doctrine and Covenants that
are written. The Bible is a good thing,
the Book of Mormon is a good thing,
and the Book of Doctrine and Covenants is a good thing. They are the
words of the Lord. But I say that
the living oracles of the Church are
worth more than all of them. If we
could have but one of them, give me
the living oracles of the Priesthood for
my guidance. Of course, it is proper
and a good thing to have it all, 'because the living oracles of the Church
work in harmony with what is written, and their counsel will not come in
conflict wth the words of the Lord in
former ages. But the conditions of
mankind change. The counsel that
was suitable for the Saints forty years
ago may not be so suitable today.
Hence the imDortance of having in
our midst the living oracles of God
to guide us day by day in the performance of our labors.
I feel that it is a good time to be
Saints. It is a good time to turn unto the Lord and live, and not turn
away from the Lord and die. I tell
you that God has revealed himself in
our day and time. He has raised up
our Presidency and the Apostles for
the guidance of the Church, for the
establishing of His work and the
building up of Zion on the earth; and
we cannot do without them. We would
be scattered to the four winds if we
did not have the living oracles of God
in our midst for our guidance. I feel
happy in this work. I hope I will continue to the end. I have not only had
one testimony from the Lord of its
truth, but many have been added from
time to time. I have seen the marvelous workings of God visible in my
behalf, and I feel this morning to
praise the Father because of His goodness and mercy, and because of His
sparing my life to bear record of His
name and to bear testimony to my
brethren and sisters and friends of the
truth and divinity of this great work.
God bless you. Amen.