ELDER BRIGHAM YOUNGGod's work in other Worlds. What a Christian is
—
Sabbath observance—Preparation to meet the
Savior.
I am gratified to be here in this assembly today. The last Conference,
in April, I was unable to attend, and
I believe that I am a living monument
of the mercy of God, for on two occasions in the month of April—last April
—I thought my time had come. But
the brethren who administered to me,
under the influence and power of God,
raised me up and through His mercies
I have this privilege of meeting with
the Saints in Conference today.
Thank God for it.
I am pleased and edified in the remarks that have been made. I rejoice
in the Gospel, for it is the power of
God unto salvation to them that believe, and I see a vast congregation before me, the majority of whom have
believed and have identified themselves with the work of the latter
days, which God has instituted to
save His sons and daughters who
have dwelt upon the earth, who do
dwell upon the earth, and all who shall
come upon the earth. This great work
has to do with all the creations of
God, and this movement is in harmony
with other labors, that are going on
in other planets, and we will find that
instead of being isolated and strangers to them as we are now, we will
mingle with people who are not of us
today, people, possibly, of other planets. And while we now consider that
it is a great thing to become acquaint-'
ed with the nations that dwell upon
the earth, then it will be the prerogative of the saved to visit other
creations and other organizations
—planets that have come into
existence and are peopled by the
Almighty—that^ we may visit them
and become acquainted with them as
we now become acquainted with foreign people.This work extends to all the
people. This work extends to all the
creations of God. It partakes of God,
and therefore the attributes that are
planted in man are like unto His attributes, and we shall become acquainted and see as we are seen and
know as we are known.
I am thankful that the brethren
have touched upon our weaknesses.
We claim to be Christians. What is a
Christian? It is one who does the will
of the Father, that lives in obedience
to the commandments of Christ. If I
do not these things, I am not a
Christian. Men have asked me by
what power does a certain individual
heal the sick? Is it in the name of
Jesus? "O, no." Question the individual who is operating, and he may

tell you, "I know not by what power
I do this." Then I don't want anything to do with that power. When
one who is endowed with the Priesthood and the Spirit of God pronounces a blessing in the name of
Jesus Christ, that man is acting as a
Christian, in that respect at least.
When there is any religious denomination that labor, that worship in any
other name, they are not Christians;
and I leave it to you and to the world
to define who are Christians in this
generation. I do not want to malign
airy one, but, my brethren and sisters,
I take this as a key, and no man nor
woman need stumble when the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ are
taught and they are lived up to,
—
that man or that woman who so lives
is a Christian in the true sense of the
word. If a religious denomination
claim to have revelation and institute
a doctrine and eschew Christ and put
Him away, they are simply grafting
on to this enlightened age a system of
heathenism, and it will not be long befor they will erect their heathen gods,
as has been done in other ages of the
world. However they may look upon
it, it is true. If these people are
Christians, if these men and these women are Christians, then they will do
that which Christ has commanded.
I am a witness that He has commanded us to observe the Sabbath day
and keep it holy; and I will say this,
that there is not, in some respects,
observed in this city anything like the
order that I found in Carthage on a
visit to that place some years ago;
that is the spot where the Prophet
Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum
were murdered in cold blood. You
could not buy a drop of liquor in that
town. You saw no ragged loafers,
nor fences down, nor men wandering
about the streets, but everybody was
busy, everybody seemed to have something to do. I was astonished, because
I had always looked upon that town
as the worst in the United States.
But it was ahead of this city in
Zion, in the order that was maintained there. There is nothing in a
name. It is said by one of the poets,
"What's in a name?" I may bear the
name of a Latter-day Saint, but I
will tell you that I have not the
flavor nor the odor of a Saint when I
do not the will of the Father. It is
said that "a rose by any other name
would smell as sweet." But when I
do not live the religion of Jesus
Christ, I have not the confidence to
present to the people, nor the Spirit of
God in me to be witnessed by the congregations of the Latter-day Saints,
and I cannot deceive them, it is impossible. No man can deceive this
people. He cannot do it, because
they are so strongly entrenched, every
man and woman that is living his or
her religion. First, we have the
Presidency of the Church to give us
revelation, to instruct us, and if God
our Father has anything for us to do
particularly outside of the instructions already given, it comes through
that channel. It comes through His
mouthpiece, and it is passed from one
grade to another in the Priesthood.
And it comes to us, "Thus saith the
Lord," if need be. Then we have within ourselves that living light and intelligence, that when the word of the
Lord comes, it seems like waters coming together, pure and undented,
waters that blend together and are
undistinguishable when they meet and
are mingled. That spirit is absorbed
by us, and we feel that what is given
unto us is for the consolation of our
souls.
Now, I ought to receive whatever
God sends me. It is a very hard
job sometimes. If it doesn't agree
with me, it is because I am crossgrained. But we should learn this
lesson, that God will hold us responsible, because the means, as has been
said, are in our power by which we
can walk a straight line without deviation. Although we have weaknesses, yet we can walk the straight
line back into the presence of our
Father. He has given us this power,
and He holds us responsible for its
use, just as the ten talents were
given, and those who had them
were held responsible for their
use. God holds you and
me responsible for the talents he gives
us, or has given us, and if these talents
are allowed to lie in the ground unproductive, we may pray to Him but
it will be in vain, comparatively, for
there will be nothing for us by way

of reward. But when they are improved, we develop until we become
like God, for the attributes which He
has implanted within us are godlike
in every particular. If we do these
things, Latter-day Saints, God will approve of us.
Now, why not go to from this time
forth and say in our hearts, and put
it into active life, that we, as far as we
are individually concerned, will observe the Sabbath day and keep it
holy, and so far as we have influence
over our families, that we will see that
this is the case also with them. Why
not do this? If this one thing were
done it would be a great relief to the
Latter-day Saints. We complain of
hard times. Why? Because, as it
was said this morning by the first
speaker, so many of us are laboring for
money, not for Christ and his Church.
If we had labored and considered
"first the kingdom of God and His
righteousness," all things would be
added. This is true, or else we have
been misled. I believe it to be true,
to be the revelation of God. Are all
things added to us? Well, there are
a great many things that I wish had
never been added; but I believe "all
things" meant all good things, and we
have seemed to have a great many
very bad things added to us in this
community and throughout the State.
Then that is positive evidence that we
have not obeyed the injunction laid
upon us to seek first the kingdom of
God and His righteousness, and all
things would be added to us. I do not
believe this day that there would be
one soul wanting labor, wanting employment, not one soul needing food,
shelter or clothing, if we had sought
first the kingdom of God and His
righteousness. All would have been
provided for. I believe that these
things have come upon us through our
weaknesses. That is my belief. I
believe I suffer today through debt,
suffer in my feelings today in not being able to meet my obligations
promptly, because I have not sought
the kingdom of God and His righteousness, first and foremost. Now I
believe that the Lord will help
us out if we will from this
time forth begin to observe the Sabbath day, and if we will go to our sacrament meetings and partake of that
sacrament worthily; if we will attend
to our prayers; if we will know where
our children are after dark, and where
they are in daylight, our sons and our
daughters; if we do not allow them to
form into clubs, and go riding horseback, in carriages, wagons and buggies, on bicycles or on foot, wandering
up the canyon, wandering into the
hills, or off somewhere playing cards,
or doing something of this kind. If we
will watch them, God wil watch us
and give us power; if we do not watch
them, He will not take much notice of
any of us, I am afraid. He has given us
these things as duties. It is our place
to attend to them. I do not blame the
children so much aa I blame the older
ones, because the child may be led.
We have influences to contend with
here that are inimical to the Church of
Christ. A lady stopped me on the street
the other day, that is she looked like
a lady and I think she was. She said,
"O, I can't stand your endowments."
"Why, what do you know about our
endowments?" I said. "O, the wickedness! I see you have been industrious, but O how wicked! O, that endowment house, what a terror it has
been to me! I am not very old, but
I have heard of it all my life!" She
was a lady from the East. Well, I
talked with her a little while. She
asked me if I was a Mormon. I told
her, just as Brother Joseph P. said on
one occasion when a boy and a
stranger interrogated him, "Yes, I am
a Mormon and died in the wool."
Well, now, brethren and sisters,
here are our duties. O, I wish I could
bring them home to you and to me.
I want to be preached to just as much
as anybody. I am one with you, as
you can see, so far as debt is concerned. O, I am bound to go right
along with you. I wish I could tell
you how I view my own actions. I
haven't language to do it. I would
like to tell you how I view those who
break the Sabbath day, how I look
upon those who go out to pleasure
resorts upon the Sabbath day. I do
not care how much people ride in a
carriage if they are doing the will of
the Father, if they are going to their

meetings, if they are going to perform
some duty; but when we start out on
Sunday and slash and race, I think we
are breaking the Sabbath day.
Brethren and sisters, God has commanded us to listen to the voice of inspiration from our brethren that we
have heard this day, especially to
the voice of our leader. Listen to
him. His words are to me like "apples
of gold in pictures of silver." Every
word that falls from his mouth, the
simplest word that he utters, is to me
a revelation, although his words may
not be quick and powerful; but every
word that he utters in conversation
is revelation to me, fori look upon him
as the vicegerent of God upon the
earth. Listen to him. Listen to his
counsels and to the counsels of his
brethren, and let this Conference mark
the epoch of a reformation, mark
the beginning of a reformation in the
midst of this people. Let us go from
this Conference when it is ended with a
determination in our hearts that as for
us we will serve God with our households as near as possible. This is the
resolution that is wanted. This is
what is needed in the hearts of the
people. And let us be diligent day and
night,diligent in keeping the commandments of God, for what was said here
' know to be true, that the coming
of our Lord and Master is not
far away from us. It will surprise us
very much, when the cry goes forth,
"Lo, the bridegroom cometh, go ye
out to meet him." I for one want to
live so that when that cry is sounded
it will be the most joyous message that
ever saluted the ears of a human being. That is the way I want to live,
and I would like the people of the
whole world—not only the Latter-day
Saints, but the people of the whole
earth, to live so that when that cry
goes forth we may go out to meet Him
with our countenances elevated to our
Savior, beaming with joy and gladness, to meet the Redeemer, the rewarder of the acts that we have performed. God help us in this; God
give us strength, for we are weak,
and enable us to lift ourselves above
our surroundings, above the world, and
to set an example worthy of imitation
by all men; which is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.

