ELDER BEIGHAM YOUNG.
We have been highly edified during our meetings in this hall, and I am
thankful for the privilege of meeting with the Saints in this beautiful building.
It is certainly a great improvement upon those brush boweries that we once
occupied, and even upon the old tabernacle that formerly stood in this corner
of the block. If we are improving as Latter-day Saints in spiritual things, and
in union in temporal matters, as we are improving in wealth, in architectural
taste, and in all of those amenities that make life agreeable in a temporal point
of view, no doubt it is well with us. I presume that we are advancing in the
knowledge of God, and that we are preparing ourselves for a future life and
exaltation in the kingdom of God. But when we examine ourselves closely,
it is evident we are not making the progress in the knowledge of the things of
the kingdom of God that we should make, as the representatives of the
Almighty in this whole earth. Of all the millions of people that inhabit this
globe the Latter-day Saints alone, so far as I know, represent the kingdom of
God upon the earth, represent the great latter-day work—the restoration of
all things—and are in possession of those ordinances which reach into eternity
and which are of so vital importance to the future existence of all mankind.
Do we truly realize the importance of the position we occupy? We have had
revelation; we are receiving revelation constantly. God has placed us in a
position that we may communicate with the heavens, that we may receive inspiration of the Holy Ghost and be actuated thereby in all the labors of this
life. But in our daily avocations we fail frequently to enjoy the free flow of
that Spirit that comes from above ; our humanity too often steps in between,
and when this is our condition we become more or less subject to other influences whose work is to deceive and lead astray. There is a principle of revelation which all Saints are required to understand and observe. It is not our
province to have angels of God visit us, as they certainly did the Prophet
Joseph Smith, when he laid out the broad foundation of the kingdom of God
upon the earth. In his case their visits were actually necessary; for nothing
short of direct communication with the heavens could have enabled him to do
the work he did; in ours it is different. The foundation is already laid according to divine approval and the work of building fairly on its way; revelations
communicating the will of the Lord have been given for our profit and general
guidance, and it remains with us to carry ft on to completion. But there is a
principle of revelation in the heart of every Latter-day Saint which, if cherished and encouraged, is calculated to lead us safe in all the minor affairs
of life ; and we should live, and it is our privilege to so live, as to be operated
upon by the influences of the Spirit of God through all our labors until the
whisperings of that Spirit shall be constantly with us. Man is in a fallen condition; we realize this every day. He looks hither and thither; he casts his

eyes to the right and to left, and desires this thing and the other thing, and
wishes and hopes to obtain them; and thus follows after those earthly possessions, paying heedless regard to more weighty things of the kingdom. Now,
the principle of revelation should be in the breast of every Latter-day Saint;
it should be there and continue to grow and increase and expand in the hearts
of the people until they are thoroughly imbued with that Spirit. It will not
come in a day nor perhaps in a year, nor in a series of years ; it will take years
and years of faithfulness on the part of the Latter-day Saints before their
minds can be wholly and fully absorbed by the spirit of revelation, so that
every thought and every act will be prompted by the influence of the Spirit of
God. It is our duty to encourage that Spirit until it absorbs the whole being,
until all our thoughts and actions shall spring from that pure source which
comes from above.
Now, that our acts do not comport with this teaching at all times, I am
aware ; but it is expected of us to grow unto these things ; and in order to grow
unto them, it is necessary for us to take a course to nourish and cherish this
Spirit in our every day associations and conversations, that nothing may obstruct the free flow of the Holy Spirit unto us.
We listen to many things that are pleasing to the ear, but which are not
profitable to the mind. This should not be. The things of the world should
have no place in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. If I place myself in a
condition to receive the things which are outside of this Church and kingdom;
if I associate with people who have denied the faith and who acknowledge
not God, who will not bow in obedience to the principles of the everlasting
Gospel, and who are, say, spiritualists and infidels—if I associate with such
men, I must to a greater or less degree partake of their influence.
Our associations have a great deal to do with either the encouraging or
discouraging within us the principle of revelation. For instance, I hear
of people calling themselves Latter-day Saints who make a practice of taking
their wives and children to beer saloons, and while in such places they get so
happy that they shout out the songs of Zion, and seem to enjoy themselves to
a great degree. Does anybody know of circumstances of this kind? Yes;
we cannot deny it. Who are these people ? Are they Latter-day Saints? I
should not think so, indeed ; although to hear them sing one might be led to
believe them the best of people, for they select the choicest ot hymns, and
they shout them out before men who make a living by selling intoxicating
liquors. To my mind it is casting pearls before swine. Perhaps you may
think that is a little strong; but that is the view I take of it. I am aware that
all the people do not do this ; I am aware, in fact, that they are very few, comparatively speaking. I am not censuring those people who do not do this
thing, but there are some people who call themselves Latter-day Saints whose
conduct in this respect is censurable. To associate with the drunkard is not
the way to encourage the principle of revelation. Every Latter-day Saint is
bound to encourage this principle if he desires to attain the blessings that accrue from the everlasting gospel. But there is but one way, one road, and the
end thereof is life everlasting.
Now, what shall we do, Latter-day Saints? We are aware of the fact
that society is sadly mixed up in this city; and that every engine and power of

darkness having a tendency to win away the hearts of our sons and daughters,
and to allure the weak-minded is at work endeavorjing to lead them down to
destruction. These local affairs should engage our attention until these evils
are rooted out from our midst. And let the line be drawn between those that
live their religion and those that do not. The very best way to show them up
in their true colors is for us to live our religion and let people see by our works
that we are for God and his kingdom.
My prayer is—and I presume it is the prayer of all Latter-day Saints
—
that God will inspire our hearts to do right, to walk in his paths, and help us
to overcome evil with good. Let us have charity. I believe in charity, I
would like to have more of it; but I do not consider it is charity for me and
mine to indulge in the society of those that are apostates, that are wicked in
their hearts, and will deny the covenants which they have made before their
Father and God* I do not think itis charity for me to throw pearls before swine.
I believe in charity, and at the same time I believe in entire cxclusiveness, so far
as mixing up my interest and striking hands with the unbelievers is concerned.
That God may help us to cultivate and develop within us the spirit of
revelation, until every thought shall be inspired from on high, is my prayer, in
the name of Jesus. Amen.


