ELDER WILFORD "WOODRUFF.
"A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a strong nation: I
the Lord will hasten it in his time." This is the word of the Lord through
the Prophet Isaiah. Fifty years has made this little one not only a thousand,
but more than one hundred thousand, and I do not think it will take half of
fifty years more to make a strong nation: and if it were not for offending the
ears of the Christian world, I would quote a word or two from the Prophet
Daniel, where he says: "Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out of the mountains without hands, which smote the image upon his feet, that were of iron and
clay, and break them to pieces. * * And the stone that smote the image
became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. * * * And it shall
break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand forever."
I know it becomes offensive sometimes to the Christian world to quote the
Bible, therefore I think I will not quote much more of it. But I wish to say
this is the destiny "of the kingdom of God which is planted here in the mountains of Israel. But I will take the liberty of asking a question; I would ask
it of the Gentile world; I would ask it of the whole Christian world if I had
a chance and an opportunity, and that is this: If this is the work of the Lord,
and if the God of Israel has set up a kingdom, undertaken to establish a Church
and a Zion, I wish to ask—can the inhabitants of the earth help it? Can they
hinder it? Can they stay the hand of the Lord? I wish the world to reflect
upon these things. Or will the unbelief of the world make the truth of God
without effect? Judge ye. Joseph Smith, while in Liberty Jail, while in
chains and imprisoned, prayed to the Lord—you will find it in the latter part
of the book of Doctrine and Covenants, page 383—he prayed to the Lord and
the Lord answered his prayer. He. told him a great many things, among the
rest that all things should be revealed in the days of the dispensation of the
fulness of times, according to that which was ordained in the midst of the
Council of the Eternal God of all other Gods, before the world was—all these
things should be revealed in the latter days. Now, says the Lord, "How long
can rolling waters remain impure? What power shall stay the heavens? As
well might man stretch forth his puny arm to stop the Missouri River in its
decreed course, or to turn it up stream, as to hinder the Almighty from pouring down knowledge from heaven upon the heads of the Latter-day Saints."
The powers of earth cannot stay the progress of his Church and kingdom, for
God has decreed it. And I wish again to say a word or two that is upon my
mind with regard to my present condition. I have read the Bible, the Book
of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants a good many times, and they
have brought me to a condition that I love to trace these revelations like the
pyramidal histories that have written to the world that peonies to an end pretty

soon. And I am about in the same position as the farmer that sees his harvest ripe for the sickle. What must he do? He must go to work and cut it,
or else it will go back into the ground; and that is the way I view the world
to-day. It is fifty years since these revelations of God were revealed to
man. Is not the world ripe? Is not the whole earth covered with whoredom, murder, blasphemy and abominations of every kind, until it rises up in
the face of high heaven and before the Lord? What will be the result? The
crop must be reaped; the harvest is at the door, it is ripe. The Lord said
hfty years ago to Orson Pratt and others, " The field is ready for the harvest. Now, thrust in your sickle and reap, and any man who will may thrust
in his sickle and reap." If we are not approaching a change, if the judgments
of God are not to be poured out upon Babylon, and if there is not a change
awaiting Zion, then I am at a loss concerning the fulfilment of the revelations
of God ; I have got about as far as I can go unless these changes are at the
door. The coming of the Son of Man is near. The signs of heaven and
earth have indicated this for many years; that is about where I am to-day; as
an Elder of Israel, as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, I can see no road
before me unless I am looking for the judgment of God to be poured out upon
the wicked, and the judgments will begin at the House of God, and it will go
forth from them to the world.
Now, a few words with regard to what Brother Taylor said. In the first
place, these Apostles here are in the same position that Ezekiel was. The
Lord said unto him, "Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the
House of Israel; therefore, hear the word of my mouth and give them warning from me. When I say unto the wicked, thou shalt surely die ; and thou
gavest them not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked
way to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniqity, but his
blood will I require at thine hand. Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn
not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity;
but thou hast delivered thy soul." So I say with regard to the Apostles here,
as well as the Seventies and High Priests and Elders and Priests—they are
set here in these latter days upon the walls of Mount Zion as watchmen. I
tell you we are under a mighty responsibility to God, and I tell you we cannot
afford, as Apostles, as Seventies, as Elders, and as High Priests, to sit still
and know that sin reigns in our midst, and not rebuke it; we can not do it, and
be justified before the Lord. Another thing, if we as Apostles, bearing the
holy priesthood, use that priesthood for any otherpurpose under heaven but
to build up the Kingdom of God, if we do our power will fall like lightning
from heaven. A good many men have undertaken this—men high in the
priesthood, even the Apostleship—to build themselves up upon the authority
of the priesthood. And where have they gone ? You may say amen to their
power and authority. They have lost their Bishopric and Apostleship. Let
us reflect on these things. I say the same to myself. I say the same to the
Apostles, Seventies and High Priests. You cannot u&e the priesthood for any
other purpose under heaven but to build up the kingdom and do the will of
God ; and when you attempt to do otherwise your power will be taken from you.
I wanted to say so much, and now I desire to say another thing. It is our
jubilee year. I want to give an exhortation. I have heard things during this

Conference that have had an effect upon my mind. I want to say to old and
young who have been in the habit of doing anything that is not pleasing in the
sight of God, it is time for us^to lay aside these things. It is time for us to
lay aside our whiskey, our tobacco, our drunkenness, and everything that lies
in our path to hinder us in our duty, or we shall be under condemnation. High
Priests, and Elders, and Apostles, or any other man, cannot bear this priesthood on the earth and revel and drink with the drunken. You cannot do it, it
is too late in the day; if you do, your power will fall from you. I felt yesterday, while Brother Taylor was rebuking these things, to say, Amen. I know
that Brother Taylor, as leader of this Church and Kingdom, can no more sit
and hold his peace while these things are going on in Israel, than he can live
without breathing. It is time for us te repent and turn away from all our
evils. The responsibility of carrying forward this Kingdom is upon the shoulders of the Latter-day Saints.
Now I will say a few words more, and then I will close. I have often
been asked the question, what condition should a man be in in order to receive
a recommend to go through the Temple of the Lord? I will tell my feelings in regard to this matter, and if they are not correct, President Taylor
and others of the Twelve can correct me. I believe it is too late in the
day to send men to the Temple who make a daily use of whiskey, or other
strong drinks, tobacco, &c, and there perform the ordinances for their dead;
it is not acceptable in the sight of the Lord God of Israel. If we are going
to be saved, let us build up the Kingdom of God, let us be reasonable and live
according to what we preach; let us live our religion. I do not believe that a
man is fit to go into the temples of the Lord to administer these ordinances
for the living and the dead, who will make a practice of drinking strong drinks.
What do you drink? Whiskey? No; you drink strychnine; you drink tobacco
and a great deal of abysinthe, "blue ruin" and death; you drink anything
under heaven but pure liquor. It can scarcely be said to exist in the land.
The "stuff that is sold deprives you of your agency, and gives the devil power
over you; it does so with anybody who makes a practice of using this liquor
and other intoxicants. No one who uses them is fit to administer in the ordinances of the House of the Lord. My own faith is that no one is fit to administer the sacrament, baptize the children of men, or administer in the
House of God, unless he in a measure keeps the Word of Wisdom. The
Spirit of God will not dwell in unholy temples.
If we are going to build up the Kingdom of God, it is time we commenced
to keep the commandments of God and live by every word that proceedeth
from his mouth. Our responsibility is great. It is the Kingdom of God, it is
no more nor less. It is the Church of Christ; it is the Zion of God that
every prophet who has ever lived since the world began has seen in vision and
declared our future history. The revelations of God in the Bible, Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants are being fulfilled. We are fulfilling
them. And while we are here let us be faithful to God, the Great Elohim, the
God of the Jews as well as the Gentiles. He looks to us and to nobody else.
He looks to the Latter-day Saints. Why? Because nobody else has received
the fulness of the everlasting Gospel; nobody else has taken hold to build up
this kingdom. My faith and feeling about this matter is that we were appointed

before the world was, as much as the ancient apostles were, to come forth in
the flesh and take hold of this Kingdom, and we have it to do, or be damned.
That is our position to-day. The eyes of the heavenly hosts are over us
;
the eyes of God himself and his son Jesus Christ and all those apostles
and prophets who have sealed their testimony with their blood are watching this people. They visit you, they observe your works, for they know very
well that your destiny is to build up this Kingdom, to build up Zion, sanctify
it, sanctify the earth and prepare the world for the coming of the Son of Man.
The judgments of God are at the door of the wicked ; they cannot hinder
them. The Lord will hold all men and all nations to an account for the deeds
done in the body, and as Isaiah- says in speaking of Zion, "The nation and
kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish ; yea, those nations shall be
utterly wasted." These are tremendous sayings. There are hundreds of
the revelations of God, all of which are going to be fulfilled upon the heads of
the inhabitants of the earth in the generation in which we are living. Be prepared, therefore, for that which is to come. There is a change at your door.
There is a change at the door of this generation. The Lord is watching over
you, and he will sustain his work.
May God bless you. May he bless the Apostles, and clothe them with
his power and with the revelations of Jesus Christ, for I will say as Brother
Snow has said— I know this is the Kingdom of God. I know that Joseph
Smith was a prophet of God, and he sealed his testimony with his blood.
That testimony is in force upon all the world, and it will cost this generation
just as much to shed the blood of the Lord's anointed to-day as it has cost the
Jews for shedding the blood of Jesus Christ eighteen hundred years ago. The
Jews have been scattered, they have been under the bondage of the Gentiles
for all these years, and they have until recently been denied all political rights.
But the Lord is about to restore them. This is the Kingdom of God. It is
the Gospel of Jesus Christ. The heavenly hosts are preparing themselves to
help the fulfilment of the revelations that are recorded in these records.
The Lord raised up President Young to lead this Church, which he led
for a generatfon. He has now passed behind the vail, where he labors with
other Apostles who have furnished their testimony on the earth. The Lord
has raised up President Taylor. The spirit of wisdom is with him. The
Lord is blessing him and blessing his brethren. The Lord will stand by us
and sustain us if we keep his commandments.
I pray God to bless you and to bless Zion, that we may have power to
bring these principles home to our hearts, to comprehend in a measure the responsibilities resting upon us, for I will say there never was a generation since
the creation in which the responsibility of the Apostles and Elders was greater
than that in which we live.
I am thankful that I have lived to see this day. I have sometimes said I
have felt lonesome. I look around me and find Joseph and Hyrum and a
great share of the Twelve have been taken away. They are now in the spirit
world. We soon shall go there too—myself, Brother Taylor, Brother Pratt and
many of us are getting grey-headed—we shall soon pass to the other side of
the vail; but let us do our duty while we are here, and all the rest, old and
young, that we may inherit eternal life through Jesus Christ. Amen.

