CIRCULAR FROM THE TWELVE APOSTLES
Salt Lake City, U. T., April 16th, 1880.
To the Presidents of Stakes and Bishops of the several Wards:
Dear Brethren:—During the annual Conference begun in this city on the
6th inst.j the Trustee in Trust, with the unanimous approval of the Apostles
and Counselors, deemed it a fitting opportunity on the fiftieth anniversary of
the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and at
the close of the Year of Jubilee, to propose remitting some $800,000, or onehalf of the indebtedness to the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company, by the
worthy poor who are struggling with adversity, unable to pay, and with but
little prospect of ever being able. This very liberal proposition was cordially
sustained by the unanimous vote of the vast congregation, composed of
authorities and members from all regions of our settlements.
That these remissions may be applied in the wisest manner possible, the
Bishops of the several wards are hereby respectfully requested to at once
proceed to learn who of those indebted to the P. E. Fund Company they may
deem entitled to the benefit of the aforenamed remissions, and write down
names, ages, year of immigration and post office address, with a few of the
principal reasons why they recommend a remission, and forward all such
recommends to their several Presidents of Stakes.
The Presidents of Stakes are also respectfully requested to at once carefully examine the aforesaid recommends from the Bishops ; endorse thereon
their approval or disapproval, with or without remarks, as the may please, and
forward to the President or clerk of the P. E. F. Co., Box B, this city, for consideration and final action by the proper authorities here, and their action
thereon will be made known to the parties concerned through their bishop as
speedily as may be.
In case a bishop shall deem it more proper to recommend remitting only
a part of an indebtedness, he will recommend accordingly, as aforenamed,
specifying the amount.
DELINQUENT TITHING REMITTED.
At the general Jubilee Conference, April, 1880, President John Taylor

proposed, and the Conference voted that the deserving poor have their delinquent tithing remitted throughout the whole Church, to the amount of one-half
the total of all the delinquencies; under such regulations as shall be approved
by the Stake Presidents and the Apostles. The Presidents of Stakes and
Bishop's agents are therefore respectfully requested to ascertain from the
books in the several wards under their jurisdiction the amount of all such delinquencies, and, at an early-day, a list of names and the wards whei'e found,
with the amounts recommended for remittal, which should include all delinquencies of persons, generally well disposed, but who, by reason of losses,
affliction, helpless families or missionary labors, have been unable to pay, and
such amounts of other delinquents as may be deemed right and proper, in accordance with the spirit of the Conference. Should the total amounts so
recommended for remission amount to less or more than one-half the total delinquency of your Stakes respectively, it will be adjusted and equalized as far
as practicable, and as shall be deemed to be just by the Presiding Bishop,
with the approval of the Apostles. The several agents should consult with
bishops, and make up lists to be submitted to the Stake Presidency, which,
after such modifications as they deem advisable, should be signed by them and
the Bishop's agents for the Stake, and forwarded to the Presiding Bishop of
the Church.
We need not remind you that neither favoritism nor prejudice should influence anyone in these matters, but only an earnest desire to make the yoke
easy and the burden light.
DONATION OF COWS AND SHEEP.
On the suggestion of President John Taylor and his brethren of the
Council of Apostles, by common consent, as expressed by the unanimous vote
of the Saints in Conference assembled, on April 7, 1880, one thousand good
young milch cows and five thousand head of healthy sheep were appropriated
for the relief of the deserving poor Saints in Zion. Three hundred of the
former and two thousand of the latter were subscribed by the Church, and the
remainder as a donation by the several Stakes, as expressed by the vote of
the Presidencies of the Stakes and Bishops of the wards, who were present at
the meeting.
In order that a proper apportionment may be determined, the Presidents
of the several Stakes are requested to ascertain and report to the Trustee in
Trust as speedily as possible the number of cows and sheep that will be required to relieve the worthy poor in their Stakes.
A prompt report, giving the names and residences in full of such as the
Bishops recommend, and whom you can endorse as being worthy and needy,
will enable us to determine at once, and inform you of how many head of each
it will be necessary for you to furnish. In securing subscriptions, it would be
well as far as possible to make, at at the same time, distributions as you may
think proper.
Being aware of the object of this charitable measure, you will, we feel
assured, perceive the importance of being thorough, prompt and energetic in
its accomplishment.

THE LOANING OF RELIEF SOCIETY WHEAT.
To the President of the Central Grain Committee, and Presidents of the
various Branches of the Relief Society in Salt Lake City and throughout the Stakes of Zion> having in charge stored Wheat:
In accordance with a unanimous vote of the sisters present at our late
general Conference, we recommend that you loan to your respective bishops
so much wheat as they may consider requisite to meet the necessities of the
deserving poor.
We also recommend that the bishops receipt to you and take receipts from
those to whom they distribute, that the wheat loaned maybe faithfully returned
when circumstances shall permit.
We realize that our sisters have performed a highly commendable and
praiseworthy labor in storing wheat for future emergencies, and we trust that,
inasmuch as the wheat is loaned without interest, the bishops, in carrying out
the above measures, will see that they receive a full equivalent for their loans,
taking into consideration the losses in changing, as well as the difference between old and new wheat as to quality and quantity. The shrinkage is supposed to be about ten per cent. The bishops should be responsible for the
return of the wheat, hence they should loan on good security and to such persons as will return the same according to agreement. It should be loaned
mainly for seed. The Tithing Office will in no case be responsible for the
return of the whole or any part thereof.
THE FORGIVENESS OF DEBTS TO THE WORTHY POOR IN ZION.
At our recent Annual Conference, the Church, by common consent, remitted one-half of the people's entire indebtedness to the Perpetual Emigrating
Fund Company, and one-half the amount due on back tithing account, aggregating about $875,900. TluVamount to apply to the cancellation of the obligations of the worthy poor on their emigration and tithing accounts, thus freeing them from a burden which they have been unable to honorably cast off.
To all such, in this regard, we offer a jubilee. The power of God moving the
hearts of the Saints still further, caused them to appropriate, for the relief of
the deserving poor of Zion, one thousand head of cows and five thousand
head of sheep. In addition to this, the Relief Societies, with a liberal generosity, offer to loan to the needy some thirty-four thousand bushels of wheat
until after harvest, without interest.
With these worthy examples, as the fruits of the gospel before us, we wish
to extend to all our brethren and sisters the privilege of aiding in this good
work of compassion and love. We respectfully remind those who have the
riches of this world more abundantly bestowed upon them, that they have a
fitting opportunity of remembering the Lord's poor. If you hold their notes
and they are unable to pay, forgive the interest and the principle, or so much
thereof as you might desire them to forgive were their and your circumstances
reversed, thus doing unto others as you would that others should do unto you.
For upon this hang the law and the prophets. If you have mortgages upon
the homes of your brethren and sisters who are poor, worthy and honest, and
who desire to pay you but cannot, free them in whole or in part. Extend to

them a jubilee, if you can consistently. You will have their faith, prayers and
confidence, which may be worth more than money. We invite Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution as the parent; all other co-operative institutions
as the children and our brethren who are engaged in profitable railroad, banking,
mercantile, manufacturing or other remunerative enterprises, to extend a helping hand. Free the worthy debt-bound brother if you can. Let there be no
rich among us from whose tables fall only crumbs to feed a wounded Lazarus.
Rather let us each and all do our part honorably, justly, charitably and well.
The Church of Christ has given us a worthy example, let us follow it, so that
God may forgive our debts as we forgive our debtors. By so doing, you will,
as Jesus says, "Make unto yourselves friends with the mammon of unrighteousness, that when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations."
That all these matters may be carried promptly to a successful issue, we
advise the Presidencies of the several Stakes and the Bishop's agents, to proceed at once to visit all the wards therein, holding meetings in order to arrange all these matters while making their visits. By this means they will
more readily accomplish what is herein required, and have their minds relieved
of the responsibilities relating thereto. Those needing wheat for seed must
of course have it soon in order that it may be available for that purpose this
season; while those needing cows and sheep will appreciate promptness in
their delivery.
John Taylor,
In behalf of the Council of Apostles.
TO ALL PRESIDENTS AND BISHOPS.
In addition to items contained in our Circular, we call attention to persons
removed from your wards leaving unsettled tithing accounts. All balances
against them should be promptly forwarded to the bishops where they now
reside, if known, and if their present residence be unknown to you, send it to
the Presiding Bishop, so that such old accounts may be considered and included in the recommendations of bishops for cancellation. An entry should
be made in your books showing the transfer of such old accounts, that they
may not be longer reported among your delinquencies.
In behalf of the Apostles.
John Taylor,
President.

