PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.

Shall we keep on a little longer, or shall we quit? I think we have a little time. We adjourned the first day of our meeting becaues it was rather cold, and we will stay a little longer. I have felt a desire to hear the testimony of my brethren of the Twelve, and that of our Counselor who is here. All of the Twelve are present except one; he is at this post, attending to the interests of Zion. And we will pray for him, that God may be with him and sustain and preserve him, and through him preserve this people.

There are a few things I want to speak upon, and I realize that while I
and my brethren are speaking, we are not only speaking to this congregation,
but to others-to the Saints throughout this and adjoining Territories; to the
inhabitants of the United States and to the world; because our testimony will go forth to them.

There are many things which I wish to draw the attention of the brethren
to, that they may not lose sight of them. One is Co-operation. We have a
number of Co-operative institutions; we have one here, which may properly
be denominated the parent institution ; we have also many others, and we wish
to sustain them, and to do it not nominally, but really in our hearts, and with
honesty of purpose; and do everything we do on that principle, without hypocrisy of any kind, in truthfulness before God, and operating together for the
welfare of Israel. But Co-operation is not a system only for importing goods
and selling them; we want to co-operate in home manufactures. We have
done considerable of that, and we desire to do more of it. The Co-operative
Store here has, I presume, as much as two hundred men at work in all—about
140 to 150 making shoes, and about 50 or 60 making certain kinds of clothing;
and we want to see these things increased, until we can make all our ovv'n
clothing right here at home ; and instead of having to employ tailors abroad
to make it tor us, we want, as quickly as practicable—and I think it is practicable now—to make it ourselves. I mean the clothing which is imported here;
and then, instead of employing comparatively only a few men, use all of our
own labor; let our factories be run on double time and use our own wool at
home, instead of exporting it, and thus increase the means of employment and
be self-sustaining. And then if we could get some of the best machinery for
the manufacture of hats, that would be another commendable enterprise, because we use a large number. I see there are a great many heads here,' and
there are a great many more in the Territory, all needing hats—and if we should
supply them ourselves it would be much better than to take the other course.
Then there are some that are trying to engage in the United Order, up
and down in different parts, especially far off in the South. They have our
blessing and our prayers. I say God bless them in all their attempts to approach that order which is instituted of God. We have not got at it yet, by
and by we will come to it; but in the meantime we will approach it as near as
we can. God is pleased with the action of this people in their liberality
towards the poor. Now be liberal one towards another, and help and relieve
one another, and God will relieve and bless you.
Speaking again of Co-operation we have what are called Boards of Trade,
and it is expected that they will operate and co-operate with our central insti-

tution. A meeting of that kind will be held this afternoon, therefore I do not
wish at this time to say much upon that subject.
There is a subject I wish to speak a little upon to High Councils, to Bisheps, to Bishops' Counselors and to the Presidents of Stakes particularly; but
as we shall hold a priesthood meeting, what I am about to refer to can be more
fully talked of then; but I will allude to it briefly here. Reference was made
by one of the speakers to a revelation contained in the Doctrine and Covenants, in which we are given to understand that the priesthood is given unto
us, not for our own aggrandizement, nor to advance our own interests, but to
build up the Church and Kingdom of God upon the earth, acting upon the
principles of justice, equity and righteousness, as you are yourselves willing
to be judged—and will be judged, before the Great I AM, when the time comes
that we shall have to give an account of our stewardship. We want no favoritism shown to any man, or to any woman, or to any set of men, but in the administration of justice to do it as in the sight of God, with integrity of heart
and uprightness; anything different from this cannot receive the approbation
of God. And furthermore, this priesthood is not conferred upon men to exercise any degree of unrighteousness or tyranny, or to in any way oppress or
injure anybody; but if any man use his priesthood to subserve any such purpose, God will take hold of him, as the Priesthood above him will take hold
of him, and he will be removed out of his place except he repent.
Another thing. 'The Lord has given unto us our various Courts—Bishops'
Courts, High Councils, etc., and it is expected that the Saints will adjust any
matters of difficulty or dispute that may arise among them, before those courts,
and that they do not go to law before the ungodly; and if any do so, I will
promise them, in the name of the Lord God of Israel, that they will be destroyed by the ungodly. Hear it, you Elders of Israel, and you Saints of latter days! Let us seek in the first place among ourselves to execute judgment
in righteousness, and then let every man and every woman submit to them.
That is God's law, and any man that acts contrary to this law cannot go into
the temples of the Lord to receive the ordinances of God's house. For if we
cannot submit to the law of God on the one hand, we cannot receive the blessings through his ordinances, on the other hand. Is that right? [The congregation answered, Yes.]
Again. I have been very much interested in our Sabbath School operations, and should have been pleased to have been present at the general meeting of the Sunday School Union, last evening, but having so much labor on
hand, I thought it better to rest. But I am interested in the cause of our Sunday Schools, and so are my brethren of the Twelve. God has given unto us
the most precious of gifts—children, and has placed us over them as the
fathers and mothers of lives. They are eternal beings, and it should be our
constant care to train them up in the fear of God. And we want the Bishops
and the Presidents to sustain them, which I believe they do, and all good
brethren and all good sisters should take an interest in the welfare of the rising generation, and do all they can to train the children in the fear of God.
And God will bless you in your labors and desires, and the youth of Zion will
rise up and call you blessed. And let no man or woman shirk the responsibility of teaching the children when it is put upon him or her.

And then, our Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement
Associations are very good institutions, and the Lord is blessing them, and he
will continue to bless them; and we desire to see them encouraged in their
operations throughout the land, that the principles of righteousness, truth and
purity may be promulgated and sustained; and that vice, evil, corruption, and
infamy may be frowned upon, and the right honored and maintained ; and
that our youth may grow up as plants of renown and become mighty men
and women in Israel, filled with the gift of the Holy Ghost and the power
of God.
Again, in regard to the Relief Societies. They are doing a great deal of
good, and I say, God bless the sisters, and let all the congregation say Amen.
[The vast congregation said, Amen.] Sisters, continue your labors of love,
and continue to propagate good, virtuous and holy principles; teach your
daughters, and also your sons, principles of holiness and purity; and seek out
the poor and distressed and minister to them, and God will bless you in your
labors. We thank you, and I thank you in behalf of the Twelve, and in behalf of the people, for the liberal vote you gave us yesterday in regard to supplying the poor and the necessitous with the grain that you have stored
—
something which we, who profess to be so much more intelligent, have not
been able to do. God bless you; continue your good works and adhere to the
principles of right and truth, and God will bless you, and he will bless your
sons and daughters, and your names will be honored in Israel, and you will be
honored by God and the holy angels.
Again, in regard to the building of temples, we are engaged in doing a
good work. Our Salt Lake Temple is progressing very nicely, and we expect
it will go forward as usual, only a little more so, next season. I would say in
regard to this temple—there were some remarks made about no reports having
been made. This is true; the people here have been careless and indifferent,
at the same time a large amount of means has been used on it, and why the
report has been omitted, I do not know. And the building known as the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall has been erected within a short time, at a cost, I suppose,
of not less than $100,000; besides attending to other things. I have no complaint to make, only we will try and do a little better; and when you are called
upon to furnish quarry hands, be a little more prompt about it, and do not be
backward ; and when you are called upon to furnish men to assist us here, do
not be backward about it. And we will try and improve, one and all, upon our
past labors in relation to these things. In Logan and Manti we have two temples under construction, and when finished they will be a credit to the people.
We are trying at least to carry out the word and will of God in this direction,
and he is helping us to do it. We will build our temples and administer in
them, and stand forth as the priests of the Most High God, administering salvation to the living and for the dead. And then, we will continue to send
forth, as we are doing, our missionaries to the nations of the earth. Although
they do not, very frequently, receive us very kindly, but no matter; they did
not receive Jesus, nor the prophets in ancient times, very kindly. The laws
of God, nor the servants of God, never were received very kindly upon the
earth, except for about two hundred years upon this continent; but the time is
coming when the Saints of the Most High God will take the kingdom and

possess it, and reign for ever and ever; and he whose right it is will come
and take the possession.
I will speak a little in regard to our government. We complain a good
deal about the way we have been treated. Well, we have been treated very
scurvily, it is true—everybody will admit that—but we must consider the circumstances : they are not of our faith, they do not believe as we do, they have
their ideas, and theories, and notions, and so have other nations as well as
this. Well, what shall we do? We will do the very best we can. Do you
think you could improve your condition in any other nation or under any other
government, or receive any better treatment than you do in this? I tell you
no, you could not. We here, at least, have the form and— I was going to say,
the guarantee of liberty; that is, the promise of the guarantee. We have the
form, but it is like a religion without the power. What shall we do ? Consign
everybody to damnation and destruction? No. Who are they? They are
God's children. Would he like to see them reform? He would; and he has
told us to try to do it. If we had children that had gone astray, would we not
like to see them reform? Yes, we would, and if our children do anything
wrong we tell them of it, and we try to reform them. We will therefore continue to go to this nation as we have done, as saviors, with the message of life
and salvation, and we will pray for the honest, the upright and virtuous, and
those who love righteousness, and those who are willing to accord to men
equal rights, and a great many who are not; and we will do them all the good
we can. We will sustain the government in its administration, and be true to
it, and maintain this position right along. And when division, strife, trouble
and contention arise, we will try to still the troubled waters, and act in all
honesty as true friends to the government; and when war shall exist among
them, and there is no one found to sustain the remnants of liberty that may be
left, the Elders of Israel will rally round the standard of freedom and proclaim
liberty to all the world. These things will assuredly take place, and when they
do our motto will be as it now is, "Peace on earth and good will to men."
These are our sentiments and feelings in relation to these matters. But while
we feel liberal, generous and kind to all men of all nations, classes and creeds,
we have no fellowship with unrighteousness ; we do not believe in the actions
of many men, nor in their corruptions and evils ; we want to purge ourselves
from them and stand forth aloof as servants of God in the midst of a crooked
and perverse generation, and try in all fidelity, in the interests of our common
humanity, to bear off the government of God triumphantly.
I would also say a little about the P. E. Fund. While we have relieved a
great many, to the amount of $800,000, of their indebtedness, which is right
before God and all honorable men; there are a great many poor Saints
among the nations yet. And we want those who are not forgiven—for we
shall not forgive those that are able to pay and do not do it—to come forward
and meet their obligations. And then, if there are those that are desirous of
assisting any in this direction, who have it in their hearts to do so, and to impart a blessing to their friends in foreign lands, let them come forward and
present their means to Brother Carrington, who is President of the Perpetual
Emigration Fund Company, and he will see that the means are properly applied. We do not want to close up this avenue of relief to the scattered poor,

but we wil} continue our efforts to gather Israel. And further; we will continue to build temples, and to administer in them, and we will also continue to
preach the Gospel, until the word of the Lord be fulfilled pertaining to this
and other nations, and then he will say, Turn to the Jews, go to the House of
Israel, the cup of the Gentiles is full. This time has not come yet.
Now, in regard to these matters, God is our God in whom we put our
trust; we have nothing ourselves to boast of. Have we wealth? Who gave
it to us? The Lord. Have we property? Who put us in possession of it?
The Lord. Our horses, cattle and sheep, our flocks, herds and possessions,
are his gifts. The gold and the silver and the precious things of earth, and
also the cattle upon a thousand hills, are his, and we are his, and in his
hands, and all nations are in his hands, and he will do with us and with them
as seemeth him good. And as a kind, wise Father, he will watch over their
interests ; and when the time of judgment comes, it will not be withheld. We
ought always to remember that our strength is in God; we have nothing to
boast of ourselves, we have no intelligence that God has not given unto us;
we have nothing in life, or property, but what has been given unto us of the
Lord. Everything we possess pertaining to time and eternity has been imparted to us by him. Let us then act as Saints of God in all humility, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. I say God
bless you, and God bless my brethren of the Twelve, and God bless my biethren of the Seventies, and God bless my brethren of the High Priesthood, and
God bless the Presidents of Stakes and their Counselors, and God bless the
Bishops and their Counselors, and the Elders, Priests, Teachers and Deacons,
our missionaries laboring in foreign lands, and all the Holy Priesthood, and
God bless all the Saints. And let us all seek to do our duty and honor and
magnify our calling. Fear God and keep His commandments, and the peace
and blessing of God will abide with us from this time henceforth and forever.
And I now testify, as my brethren have done, that this is the work of God
that has been revealed by the Almighty, and I know it. And God will sustain
Israel, and no power can injure us if we will do what is right; and this kingdom will roll on, and the purposes of God will progress, and Zion will arise
and shine, and the glory of God will rest upon her. And we will continue to
grow and increase until the kingdoms of this world shall become the kingdoms
of our God and his Christ, and he will reign for ever and ever. Amen.

