ELDER MOSES THATCHER.
Would it not be well, my brethren and sisters, to reflect, after the close
of this Conference, in reference to our individual acts during our past experience in the Church? Would it not be well to ask ourselves the question
whether we shall be prepared in the future to receive that measure which we
have meted out to others ; whether we shall be satisfied with that judgment
with which we have judged others; whether we have followed the whisperings
of the Spirit of God; whether we have been humble, prayerful, faithful and
true? It would be well for us, I think, to reflect upon these points, and
wherein we are satisfied we have not lived up to our privileges, let us as far as
possible make amends and start again, rejoicing before the Almighty.
I am pleased to be able to add my humble testimony to those to which you
have listened this morning. I know that this is the Churah of Christ. I
know that we have Prophets, Seers and Revelators. I know that every blessing which the Lord Jesus Christ has promised is within the reach of this people, if they will live so that they can claim them. I can bear my testimony
that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God; that he with his natural eyes saw
the face of angels; that he heard the voice of God; that he heard the voice of
the Lord Jesus Christ; and that he received the Aaronic and Meldhisedec
priesthood. I can bear my testimony that he sealed his testimony with his
blood, and that therefore it is in force upon the whole world. His brother
Hyrum died by his side, and the blood of our venerated and respected President, who presides to-day over the quorum of the Twelve Apostles, was
mingled with their blood, and stands also as a testimony before this nation and
before this people. I know that he is led to-day by the revelations of the
Lord Jesus Christ, and I can bear my testimony that when you raise your
hands to sustain him as a Prophet, Seer and Revelator, that God hears and
answers your prayers. There is this spirit of revelation in the midst of the
people. I know it in every fibre of my nature, Iknow it in every sense of my
being, and I thank God that He has given me this testimony. I know also in
reference to the judgments that are to be poured out upon the earth. Enough
has been revealed to make me feel sorrowful and frequently like shedding bitter tears. I have no feeling of enmity against our government. I have no
feeling of bitterness against a living human being, wicked though many may
be, because their sorrows will be more than they can bear, and the judgments
of the Almighty, when they come to be poured out, will touch the hearts Of
the Latter-day Saints and cause them to retire to their closets and secret
places and weep because of the desolation and ruin that will be brought upon
this and other nations. I can also bear my testimony that the preaching of
righteousness is accomplishing a great work among the remnants of Israel,
and that the poor Indians, who have been despised and hated through the ignorance, bigotry, and folly of the wicked, will yet arise and stand forth in their
manhood; the Lord Jesus Christ will bring them out of their bondage and fulfil all the words of the prophets concerning them, that are recorded in the
Book of Mormon.
May God bless the Latter-day Saints. May we march on to perfection, to
liberty, and to the power of God unto salvation, is my earnest prayer, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.