PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.
In relation to the subject that I referred to this morning pertaining to the
Co-op, I am informed that they are very busy with their affairs and have not
had time to make any specific statement pertaining to this matter; but they
feel disposed to unite with us in relieving the necessitous and worthy, as far
as they would be justified in the premises, and in accordance with correct
principles, to do their part. I would here remark that the same kind of feeling would be very commendable on the part of other store-keepers, bankers,
or any one of us to relieve each other.
I would make a statement in relation to the Co-op. I have had reports
from the north, that some parties who ought to know better, had said that the
Co-op. was no longer a Church institution, and that it was managed, directed
and controlled by a few monopolists, and that we were asking the people to
sustain them in their operations, which I consider very infamous talk, and
especially coming from men who profess to be men of honor. The Church, I
will here say, holds an interest in that establishment to the amount of $360,000,
and then there are 580 stockholders, who are Latter-day Saints, in it, besides
the interest which the Church holds. And when men make such statements I
consider it infamous and contrary to correct principles ; and I should recommend their bishops and the authorities of the Church where they live to bring
them up for slander and treat them accordingly. That enterprise was started
as is properly implied by the initials of its name. What is it? "Zion's Cooperative Mercantile Institution." They had for sometime difficulties to cope
with; perhaps things might not have been managed as well as they could
have been. There may have been errors in judgment. For sometime they
did not pay dividends; but latterly they have paid what might be considered a
fair dividend, and the Institution never was in a better condition than it is today. I speak of this that you who are stockholders in that institution may
not be imposed upon by speculators who would seek by false representations
to get from you your stock at less figures than it is really worth, I think it
is our duty, as Latter-day Saints, to sustain that institution; and then, on the
other hand, I think it is the duty of that institution to sustain the Saints, and
let us get closer together in our relationship, and act honorably and uprightly
in everything we engage in, then we can secure the blessing of the Almighty.
I thought I would say so much in relation to this matter.

In regard to the work we are engaged in, it is one of very great importance; it is one on which God and angels, apostles, prophets, patriarchs and
men of God who have lived in the different ages of the world, have felt interested about; and do to-day. And about these little matters of dollars and
cents we do not care so much about them or ought not to; although we have
to attend to all these matters—matters temporal, matters spiritual, things pertaining to time and things pertaining to eternity. It is expected of us that we
act wisely, prudently and understandingly in all of our doings. And in speaking of the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company's operations, we expect that
all decent men will meet their obligations, and those who are not of that class
will not. We will forgive the poor and let them go, and the others may go if
they want to. But we will not release them from their indebtedness if they
are able to pay it. Is not that just? I think it is. We will relieve the poor
and needy; but as to those people who have called upon you—and you have
sent out your teams and have loaded those teams with provisions of all kinds,
and you have either gone yourselves or sent your sons to drive them, to help
them in, if those men do not feel like acting just and right, let them be considered among the unjust who have used your means which was appropriated
by you to relieve the necessitous and have not had the honesty to return it,
but as to the poor, the needy and distressed, we will come to their relief and
help them, the same as we are obliged to go to God our Heavenly Father and
ask him to help us, for we are all dependent upon the mercy of God, we live
in him, we move in him, and to him-we are indebted for our existence as well
as for every blessing that we enjoy pertaining to time or eternity. He has revealed unto us the fullness of the blessings of the gospel of peace, he has taken
our feet from the mire and clay and has planted us upon the rock of eternal
truth, he has imparted unto us the light, intelligence and revelation of heaven,
he has made us to sit together in heavenly places in Jesus Christ, he has
taught us how to save ourselves and our families, how to save our progenitors
and how to save our posterity. And we have this labor to perform. And if
we have gone forth and assisted our brethren we have only done our duty,
and what was there so much after all? Not much, we have simply performed
a duty—a duty we owed to
tGod and our brethren. If we had not had the
means we could not have given it, and having given it, we will continue to do
the best we can and we will keep on doing, helping all, comforting all, relieving all, teaching all and seeking to promote the well being of the human family and to carry out the designs of God in the best manner that we can.
One duty we owe to the world is to preach to them the gospel, and for
that the priesthood is organized in part. The Elders are sent forth from time
to time—many that are around me on my right and left and also before me
have gone forth "weeping, bearing precious seed," they have gone in the
midst of persecution and affliction, to an unthankful world, to proclaim to the
people the glad tidings of salvation, and they have "returned again rejoicing
bringing their sheaves with them." And we are still doing the same, the
Lord has laid it upon us and it must be done. And when we send out missionaries— I was told that some did not hear what I said this morning upon this
subject, I will try to make you all hear now—when we send out missionaries
we want you to see that their families are provided for in their absence, if they

have not the means to do it themselves, stand by them and treat them kindly
and provide them with the necessaries of life that they require, that they may
be comfortable and made happy and be one with us, and while our brethren
are engaged laboring abroad, notable to provide for their families, let us provide for them. And we call upon the presidents of Stakes, and upon the bishops and upon the people where they reside to see that these things are attended too, that the families of our missionary brethren are made comfortable
and happy. Our brethren under these circumstances can feel contented and
can go forth with satisfaction and joy. "Why," they will say, "we are going
forth in the name of the Lord trusting in the God of Israel, and while we are
gone we have left our families among our friends who will take care of them,
and all is well and all will be well." When you do that they will bless you
and you will be blessed in time and in eternity. It is a great privilege to be
able to do good. Did you ever think of it? Jesus said, "Make to yourselves
friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, that when ye fail they may receive
you into everlasting habitations." Then let us feel after the welfare of our
brethren, and we will not dwell much upon one another's weaknesses, for God
knows that all of us have enough of them, at least, I feel I have, and I think
my brethren feel that they have, and I do not think that many of you are very
much better than we are. But I tell you what we desire to do and to see carried out. We wish correct principles to be carried out, and while we are
sending the gospel to the nations afar off, we want to see the pure principles
of the gospel lived up to at home. We do not want to be influenced by tire
corruptions that float upon us here. While we respect proper authority and
pay proper deference to all honorable men in all positions in our country, we
do not want to copy after the devices of this corrupt generation, we want
them to keep them to themselves if they admire them. We neither want
drunkenness nor whoredom nor infanticide nor foeticide nor any of the corruptions that abound throughout the world, or of this nation, of which every
honorable man ought to and does feel ashamed. We want to train up our
youth in the fear of God, and hence we have our Young Men's and Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, which are doing a great deal ot
good throughout the land in teaching and being taught correct principles.
It is our youth that are growing up that we shall have to look to, by and by,
to bear off this kingdom, and we wish the fathers and mothers to set their
children a good and proper example, to be patterns of purity, of honesty,
truth, integrity and uprightness, that they may be able to meet and look
every man in the face with a clear conscience and open countenance, and not
be obliged to dodge around corners for fear of some one seeing them and
finding them out. There are no people under the heavens that make greater
pretensions than we, there are no people under the heavens that have been
more favored of God than we have been. We feel inclined sometimes to
murmur and complain about the nation to which we belong. It is true they
have not treated us very generously or very kindly in many respects, but the
Lord seems to take care of us, and we do not suffer much do we? We enjoy more liberty to-day than millions of the inhabitants of the world do. And
I do not know of any nation under the heavens where we would be better
protected than we are here, thanks to many honorable men and thanks to the

God of Israel who has delivered us and who has told us that he would
watch over us and take care of us and provide for us, which he has done,
and I feel grateful to him. For this, however, we are not under any obligations to our enemies, but no matter, if they can stand it we can. When
I see men violating the sacred principles of liberty and trampling under
foot the institutions of our nation, I feel to realize that they are the enemies
of mankind and of the nation. I do not care what position they occupy. God
will hold them to an account, as breakers of their own covenants. We will
try, however, to maintain our own, and treat everybody right, and pray for all
honorable men, and let the devil take care of the balance. (Laughter). This
is how I feel in relation to these matters. We want among ourselves to learn
strictly the principles of honesty, to have and maintain honest dealing one
with another and be true to our word, and to let our word be our bond. And
never mind so much about litigation. I do not know that I ever sued a man
in my life, and I do not think that I ever shall. I am not fond enough of law,
or money either, to do it. And God will help us and protect us in our rights,
if we will only do right. And then we Latter-day Saints, we elders of Israel
and we sisters of Israel, we ought to be ladies and gentlemen, we ought to
treat one another with courtesy and kindness, and true politeness. Lord
Chesterfield and others have written long treatises on politeness. I will tell
you, in a few words, what it is to be polite: try to make everybody as comfortable and happy as you can, in all your words and in all your acts, and
then you will be polite. Study the feelings of those with whom you are associated and those with whom you come in contact. And when a man meets an
elder, why, says he, that is an honorable man, that man is anointed of the
Lord, I will respect him, I expect to be associated with him in time and in
eternity, and shall I degrade myself by speaking harshly or acting harshly
towards him? No, but we will treat one another with kindness and courtesy.
And we will treat our sisters in the same way, and act the part of gentlemen
towards them, and protect them in all their rights and in all their privileges, and never be afraid that they are going to run away with some of our
rights. When I hear people talk that way I think they are a little in doubt
of themselves. Why, we expect our sisters—our wives—to be with us ru>t
only in time, but in eternity; and let us treat them accordingly, with kindness,
with affection, with love and with esteem. And then let the sisters turn round
and treat their husbands and brothers and fathers in the same way; and let us
all cultivate those principles that are calculated to promote one another's happiness and peace, that it may reign in our own bosoms, and dwell in our habitations, and prevail throughout the land, that the peace of God and the blessing of God may rest upon us. And while we feel a disposition to do right and
to keep the commandments of God, God will bless us and sustain us in all of
our operations ; and every plot and every contrivance devised against us will
fall to the ground, for God will be our deliverer and our protector. Let us train
up our children in the fear of God too, and watch over their morals, and especially the morals of our daughters, and see that they do not get led astray in
the paths of iniquity; but watch over them and pray with them and for them;
and pray for one another, and sustain one another, and help one another, and
bless one another, and God will bless us.

We are sending out persons to go and extend the borders of Zion, to make
new settlements. I was very much pleased to hear some remarks made by
Brother Woodruff in relation to these things, and the acts and doings of the
brethren in Arizona, and of some of the new settlements south and southeast.
There is a number of "those settlements referred to by Brother Woodruff, the
members of which we advised when they went, to come as near to the United
Order as they could—that is, to be united. Brother Woodruff says that in
those new settlements he did not see a man drunk, he did not hear a man
swear, neither did he see any person use tea or coffee. In this respect they
are setting an example that it would be well for us to follow. And, then, do
not pursue that licentious course exhibited around us here. It is this d—
d
infernal "civilization" that has introduced these infamies into our midst. Let
us purge ourselves from them, and not mix Up with their ungodly doings. Excuse me for the remarks, but they are true before God ; they are both damned
and infernal, for those who practice them will be damned, and they are infernal, because they proceed from the infernal regions. I do not care who sustains them, whether governors, judges, priests, or whatever they may be ; they
are of their father, the devil, who sustains those things and maintains them.
Those crimes are not original with us ; they are brought here to try to corrupt and enslave and debase and pollute us. Keep yourselves pure from
these corruptions, and walk worthily of the high vocation whereunto you
are called.
I heard the other day from one of our speakers that there were Elders, High
Priests and Seventies who got drunk. What are the Bishops doing? What
are the Presidents of Stakes doing? Why do you not bring them up and cut
them off from the Church—any such Elder, any such High Priest, or any
such Seventy, or any- of the Saints who may be found guilty of such thing?
For they are hypocrites, and want dealing with and severing from the Church.
Furthermore, I have heard of some Bishops who have been seeking to cover
up the iniquities of men; I tell them, in the name of God, they will have to
bear them themselves, and meet that judgment; and I tell you that any man
who tampers with iniquity, he will have to bear that iniquity, and if any of you
want to partake of the sins of men, or uphold them, you will have to bear them.
Do you hear it, you Bishops and you Presidents? God will require it at
your hands. You are not placed in position to tamper with the principles of
righteousness, nor to cover up the infamies and corruptions of men. Now, do
not say you did not know anything about it; I have given you fair warning,
and I clear my skirts of your blood; and their infamies will cleave to you unless you attend to it.
God expects us to do right; he has giveu unto us the priesthood for that
purpose, and he requires us to magnify it and honor it and carry it out. And
it is the place of those men, and the place of the teachers to see that there is
no iniquity in the Church; and if they do not do their duty, it then becomes
the duty of the Bishops to see to it; and if the Bishops do not see to it, it is
the place of the Presidents of Stakes to see to it; and if they do not see to it,
and it comes to our ears, it will then become our duty to see to it, and also to
see to them who do not magnify their calling. God will not be mocked.
"Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap; if he sows to the flesh,

he shall of the flesh reap corruption; if he sows to the spirit, he shall of the
spirit reap life everlasting."
We are gathered here to serve God ; we are gathered here to be taught in
the ways of the Lord; we are gathered here to build up temples, and then to
administer in them; we are gathered here to send the Gospel to the nations of
the earth, and to fulfil those various requirements v/hich God has placed upon
us to attend to; and if we are faithful in all our duties, God will bless us.
I find that the time has expired. Shall we continue the Conference another day? All who desire to do so say aye. (The vast congregation responded "aye.")

