ELDEE CHARLES C. RICH.
I am thankful for the opportunity of making a few remarks before the close
of the Conference. The Lord has certainly poured out upon us a goodly degree of his Holy Spirit, and we have received instructions which, if observed
and carried out in our lives, will be of everlasting benefit and salvation to us
as Saints of the Most High God.
There are certain things that we are in duty bound at all times, to bear in
mind and never lose sight of, and one of those things is, the requirement of the
Lord that his Saints should become one. This lesson has been taught to us
from the very beginning until now, and in it is involved the strength of this
people. It is a lesson that should first be taught and acted upon in the family
of every Latter-day Saint; and whenever difficulties arise between neighbors,
families, or settlements, the first step to be taken by all the parties concerned
should be to amicably settle the same, and from that time seek to do better, to
be more respectful to another's feelings, and to really become united as Saints
of the Most High in the bonds and the covenants of peace. Therefore, my
beloved brethren and sisters, let us take this matter in hand and see to it; see
to it that we labor, every man in his individual capacity, to become united, and
this, too, by laying aside our faults, our follies and our imperfections; and as
far as possible seek to build up the Kingdom of God on the principles revealed
unto us from heaven. For most assuredly he will not accept of us or our
labors on any other terms than those which he himself has dictated.
And, again, among other things of importance required of us, as a community, and which is the work of to-day, is the building of temples in which
to receive certain blessings essential to our salvation and exaltation in his celestial kingdom. He has ordained from before the foundation of our worlds
and has revealed this fact to us in our day, that his people can only receive
from him certain blessings in certain places—having a special reference to
those sacred buildings we call temples ; and for this reason are we required to
perform this work. We have been reminded that the time of the end draws
near, so near, indeed, that there is no time to spare : and this labor is required
of us and will have to be performed in a proper time. The Lord said to this
people at an early day, that if the Saints did not perform a certain work by a
certain time—referring to to the building of the Nauvoo Temple—that they
should be rejected, and also their dead. Inasmuch as we were not rejected,
and now have time and opportunity, let us use the time and improve the opportunity to the best advantage and of our ability to perform the work which he
requires of us, and labor while it is called to-day. I feel that we are a blessed
people, that the Lord has poured out upon us choice blessings in rich abundance, and inasmuch as we prove ourselves worthy to receive them on the terms
which he has proposed, we will find that our Heavenly Father is abundantly
willing and able to bestow, for surely there is no good thing that will then be
withheld from us. But I have sometimes thought, judging from the actions of
some, that they expect to realize the much desired blessing of the future on
their own terms, as it suits them; it would seem that this was the case with
some of our brethren, who seemingly want to do nothing unless it suits their
individual feelings, overlooking partially, if not entirely, the great fact, that
we have enlisted to do nothing but the will of our Father as it is and shall be

made known to us through the proper authority. Nor does it matter to us, as
his faithful servants, what that will may be, whether to build temples or anything else, we should engage with our whole heart in, the work required of us.
The results of the labors of this people for half a century are before the
world, which, although wrought in much weakness, and ofttimes in poverty
and distress, have been, under the blessing of a merciful,. a just and allwise
God, crowned with success; and on this, the occasion of our jubilee year just
closed, I, in common with my brethren, raise my heart and voice in praise to
him who lives and rules in the heavens above, and in testimony to this being
his work, even the work to be developed in the latter days, so often spoken of
in holy writ. And I repeat what has been said that the judgments are nigh,
even at the door, and this work is going to be fulfilled. Let us open our eyes
and ears, that we may see and hear as the wise virgins, that we may rightly
comprehend the nature of the work to be performed, not in some other generation, but in the generation in which we live.
I bear my testimony to the the truth of what we have heard in relation to
the judgments of God that are to come upon the earth, as well as in relation to
the truthfulness of this latter-day work. This testimony was given to me
many years ago, having embraced the Gospel as early as the year 1832, when
the Lord opened the vision of my mind and manifested to me that it was of
him, and that it was the commencement of that work which should eventually
"fill the whole earth." I know this to be true to-day, and have known it and
testified, whenever opportunity afforded, to its truthfulness ever since that
early day; and I bear testimony of it this day before you, my brethren and
sisters, and to all the world, that this is verily the work of God, and that he
will fulfil the words that have been spoken to us his Saints concerning all
things coming on the earth. And to the Latter-day Saints I would say, inasmuch as we treasure up in good and honest hearts the principles and words of
life which God has revealed, and live in consonance with them, we have
nothing to fear; on the contrary, the faithful will rejoice, not in the downfall
of the disobedient and wicked, but in the realization of the promised blessings
in which they will rejoice, both in time and eternity.
Then, my beloved brethren and sisters, let us awaken to the warnings we
hear from t
;me to time, and especially cherish the Spirit, and ponder over and
improve upon the instructions of this Conference, for they are true and faithful, and to this you, as well as I, can testify. And when we go to our homes
let us carry with us and impart the spirit of this Conference to our brethren
and sisters of the several Stakes who have not been present, that they also
may take warning and square their lives according to the principles of the
everlasting Gospel, laying aside everything that is wrong, and doing that
which is right in all things pertaining to our religion, as Saints of the Most
High God. And that we may pursue that course which will guarantee unto
us all the blessings of the new and everlasting Covenant, is my prayer, in the
name of Jesus. Amen.

