ELDER ORSON" PRATT.
O God, the Eternal Father of Heaven and of earth, we thy children, thy
sons and daughters, have assembled ourselves together on this the 6th day of
April—the day appointed and set apart for the General Conference of thy
Saints from year to year—we have assembled in this large and commodious
Tabernacle, for the purpose of commemorating this day, and of hearing the
words that may be spoken from this stand, and also of giving in our votes and
our voices unitedly in relation to all business matters that pertain to the
Church of God here on the earth that may be transacted on this occasion.
We thank thee, Holy Father, that we have been permitted to receive the
tulness of the everlasting Gospel revealed anew in this great last dispensation
of the fulness of times. We thank thee that thou hast organized thy Church
and established the kingdom that was spoken of by Daniel the prophet, and
other holy men that lived in ancient times, in fulfilment of their words, and

that it has been organized to stand forever, never more to be destroyed or
given into the hands of other people.
And we thank thee, Holy Father, that in the midst of all the persecutions
and difficulties we have encountered during the fifty years now being brought
to a close, that thou hast sustained us, that thou hast not utterly cast us off,
that thou hast not suffered us to become victims to our enemies and to those
that have persecuted us ; but that thou hast sustained thy Saints, and brought
them into these mountain valleys, and planted them in the midst of the fastnesses of these everlasting hills, and spread them forth upon the right and
upon the left, until we have become a great and a numerous people.
We thank thee for the great gathering which thou hast commanded and
inaugurated in this dispensation—the gathering of thine elect, the gathering of
the Saints of the Most High—that we have been permitted to come from all
the various nations wherever the Gospel has been preached and churches
raised up, and establish ourselves in these mountain vales.
We thank thee, O Lord, for all thy peculiar care and thy great mercies
that have been extended to this people. Notwithstanding our many imperfections, our many follies and sins, thine eyes have been upon us for good.
Thou hast raised us up; thou hast strengthened our hands; thou hast encouraged us in our work; thou hast visited us by the manifestations of thy Spirit;
thou hast given revelations from time to time to strengthen thy servants and
encourage thy Saints. And we thank thee for all these blessings in the name
of thy beloved Son. And as the fiftieth year since the organization of thy
Church is now about drawing to a close, we pray that thy peculiar blessings
may continue to rest upon thy people, and that we may be able to esteem the
past year since our General Conference as a year of jubilee to the Latter-day
Saints. And we pray that as the close of this year of jubilee will come to an
end this day, notwithstanding the close thereof, that we may, in all our future
years, humble ourselves before the Lord our God and keep thy commandments blameless, and walk in all thy ordinances and the institutions of thy
kingdom, and serve the Lord our God, and be united more perfectly according
to the law which thou hast given concerning the union of thy people.
Bless, we humbly pray, thy servant Brother Taylor. Thou hast raised
him up by thy power, and placed him in a high and important position in thy
Church, to preside, in connection with his brethren, the Apostles, over the
affairs of this great latter-day Kingdom. We pray that thou wilt inspire him
with great and important knowledge and information for the welfare and happiness and benefit of the Saints over whom he presides. Bless him abundantly with the spirit of revelation; bless him with the visions of eternity;
bless him with knowledge that comes down from heaven; bless him with the
discernment of thy spirit; bless him in all things, and qualify him for the important and high position in this thy Church and thy Kngdom, in this thine
earth.
Bless his brethren, the Apostles ; fill them with the Holy Ghost, inspire
their hearts. from on high, and give unto them the spirit of counsel and wisdom, that they may impart unto these thy people that which shall benefit them
and build them up in their most holy faith, Bless all the Presidents of the
Stakes of Zion and their Counselors, and also the Bishops, and also the vari-

ous wards in every Stake. Bless them with inspiration, with the knowledge
of God, with an understanding of their several duties and callings ; and may
thy servants, from the highest to the least, in all the various councils of the
priesthood, be inspired from on high, and thus be able to carry out the great
purposes which thou hast intended concerning the everlasting priesthood again
sent down from heaven and conferred upon man.
We pray, O Lord, that the work of the gathering of thy Saints may continue, that thine Israel may be gathered from all nations and peoples under the
whole heavens, to dwell in these mountain valleys, and become a great people,
that the borders of Zion may be stretched out, and the cords of Zion be
strengthened, and thy people be prepared with one heart and one mind for
that great redemption which thou hast promised to them in the latter days.
Let thy blessing, O Lord, be upon this congregation, upon every man,
every woman, every child and every person that attends whose heart is desirous of serving the Lord his God. May the spirit of inspiration rest upon
them all. May the Spirit of the Most High impart peace and consolation to
all who may be sick and afflicted, that are not permitted to meet with us this
day—may they find favor in the sight of God, may thine angels be sent forth
to minister unto them, that they may be comforted, raised up and healed, and
that the destroyer may be rebuked from the midst of this people in every settlement.
O Lord, we ask in the name of Jesus Christ, that during the convention of
our Conference from day to day until the close thereof, that the Lord our God
may be in the midst of this people, that thine angels may be round about us,
that the heavenly hosts may rejoice over us, that the vision of our minds may
be opened to contemplate the things of God; and and that all who speak may
speak by the inspiration of thy Spirit, and all be edified together. We ask
thee, O Lord, to let thy blessing be upon all the missionaries that are sent
forth into the nations of the earth, that they may go in power, go in strength,
filled with the Spirit and power of God, filled with courage and holy boldness
to carry forth among the children of men the glorious Gospel of the Son of
Man, revealed in these latter days for the benefit of the human family.
Hear us, O Lord, in these our supplications. Be with us in our deliberations. Assist us in this Conference, and smile upon us from thy holy habitation. And when we have fully accomplished the work which thou hast given
us to do in this probation, may we be prepared to go into thy kingdom, behold
thy face, and receive that welcome plaudit, " Come, ye blessed of my Father,
and inherit the kingdom prepared for you from before the foundation of the
world." These, together with all other blessings which we should pray for,
we seek for at this time, not in our own name, but in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ. Amen.


