ELDER OESON PHATT.
It is many months since I attempted, except on one occasion, to address a
public congregation. On account of ill health and other circumstances, I have
refrained from public speaking, except at the former meeting held in this house
last winter. I do not know whether I shall be able to raise my voice to that
loudness that the congregation will be able to understand; I will, however, do
the best that I can. I pray my Father in heaven to pour out his Spirit upon
me, that what I may say—whether it be a few words or many—may be indited
by the gift and inspiration of the Holy Ghost, without which all our preaching
is in vain.
I certainly, for one, was very much instructed in our forenoon meeting,
especially in regard to the remarks of the first speaker on the fiftieth anniversary since the organization of this church ; and I was also very much instructed
in the remarks made by the following speaker.
It is a great delight to me, as an individual, to look forth upon the large
congregations of the Latter-day Saints who are assembled from time to time
in these mountains, in the capacity of a General Conference. In all these
assemblies and conferences I remember the early rise of this church; I remember when we were a small people, when we could assemble ourselves in a
very small room, and that in General Conference. I remember the first Conference that I attended, on the 2d day of January, 1831, consisting perhaps of
some seventy or eighty members in all, assembled in the house of Father
Whitmer, whose sons were chosen to be especial witnesses in relation to this
great latter-day work. I remember our trials, our difficulties, our gathering,
our persecutions, our afflictions, more or less, from that day until the present
time. Then I was but a boy nineteen years of age ; now I am over sixty-eight,
and in a few months more fifty years will have passed over my head since I
was first baptized into this church. How thankful I ought to be that I am still

living. How thankful I ought to be that I am still numbered with this people.
How thankful. I ought to be that I have the opportunity and privilege of administering in your public congregations, preaching the words of eternal life,
lifting up my voice in humble testimony concerning the great work which the
L.ord our God has been doing during the last fifty years.
Among the ancient Jewish nation in the land of Palestine there was a
law ordained in relation to the fiftieth year. Every fiftieth year was to be a
peculiar year in the midst of that nation. There were many special times set
apart by the Almighty, as times that were symbolical in their nature ; times
laving reference to the future, among which was the cultivation of the earth
for six years, and on the seventh year the land was made to rest. The tribes
*>f Israel cultivated the soil, but they were required on the seventh year to let
the whole land rest. I presume that the Lord had in view several things to be
-symibolized by these six years of labor and the resting on the seventh. This
a© doubt had a reference to the creation of the heavens and the earth, so that
the Israelites might keep in remembrance the great work which was accomplished by the Lord our God in the beginning—the formation or organization
of the temporal heavens over our heads, and also of the earth upon which we
:stand. By resting on the seventh year from all their labors, they symbolized
ilaat which existed, or took place, when the seventh period or time came round
in the creation. In six days, we are informed, this great work of creation was
performed, at least so far as the spiritual portion thereof was concerned. On
•the seventh day, we are informed by new revelation, as well as instructed in
part by old revelation, that the Lord rested. He did not commence resting, as
ssome have supposed, on the sixth day evening, neither at midnight, nor early
*®n the seventh day, because there was a certain work to be performed on the
seventh day, which the Lord delayed until that time. On the seventh day the
Lord formed the garden of Eden, planted the trees of that garden, laid out the
work, beautified it, and also placed man in the garden, having formed his fleshly
tabernacle, which was also the work of the morning of the seventh day, and
"fee has informed us that on the morning of that day there was no flesh upon
the earth except the man whom he had formed and placed in the garden. Yet
all the children of men were created the day previous, or the period previous,
called the sixth day, so that they all existed ; but the Lord says " in heaven
created I them." They were not created here upon the earth, but they were
• created in heaven ; but on the seventh day man was placed here upon the
earth, having a tabernacle of flesh and bones. So says the new translation,
or that portion thereof contained in this book, called the " Pearl of Great
Price." I have oftentimes thought, when reading these revelations, that they
typified something ; or that the Lord would not fully accomplish his work in
six thousand years preparatory to the day of rest, but intended, on his part, to
do something on the morning of the seventh thousand years, just as he did in
the beginning. Was the spirit of man placed on the earth in a body of flesh
and bones on the morning of the seventh day of the creation? He was.
What was that typical of? Typical of the resurrection, when the righteous
will again have fleshly tabernacles, formed, as in the beginning, out of the
-dnst of the earth ; when they will come forth from the grave with immortal
"bodies. These bodies will be flesh and bones, like unto the bodies of the first

pair that were formed on the morning of the seventh day. Was the first man
immortal? He was. Will those who shall be resurrected, or formed from the
dust of the grave, in the morning of the seventh thousand years, also be immortal? They will; the one being typical of the other. Was there any curse
upon the earth when the first man was permitted to occupy it with a body of
flesh and bones? There was not. There was no death; indeed, man was
"the first flesh upon the earth, the first man also." There were no beasts on
the earth, no fowls to fly in the firmament of heaven, no fish to swim in the
sea. But you may ask, how is thjs? Do we not read that on the fifth day God
created great whales, fish of all kinds that could swim in the sea, &c? Yes.
How was it, then, that there was no flesh on the earth, neither in the sea, on
the seventh day till man was placed there? All that we need in reconciling
the two chapters is to understand the two creations. Everything was created
first spiritual. The fish that swim in the waters were first made spiritual. The
fowls that fly in the open firmament of the heavens, that were created also on
the fifth day, were made spiritual. Their spirits existed and were formed;
but God saw proper that on the seventh day the first flesh that should be on
the earth should be man. Afterwards, out of the ground the Lord God made
the beasts of the field and every creeping thing, and cattle, and every beast
after his kind; that is, in the beginning, the first pairs were formed and placed
upon this new creation, not before, but after man was placed here. Is this
typical of anything? Yes; typical of the resurrection of beasts as well as of
man, according to the revelations contained here in the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants. Everything to which the Lord has granted life will be brought
forth in its time and in its season, be resurrected, receive its body, and the
spirits of beasts, and the spirits of fowls, and the spirits of fish and all animated beings will receive their bodies in the resurrection, and be made immortal, as they were on the morning of the seventh day; the one being typical
of the other. This is one thing, no doubt, that the Lord intended to symbolize, in order to keep in remembrance before the minds of the children of Israel concerning that first great work of his, "firstly spiritual, and secondly
temporal, which was the beginning of his work."
Another thing intended to be typified by this seventh year, wherein the
land was commanded to rest, was to show forth the future, to show forth the
last of his work, which will be "firstly temporal and secondly spiritual," being
the last of his work pertaining to this creation. But unto himself there is no
beginning nor end of his works, neither to his words. Two great and important things were, therefore, symbolized by these ordinances which the children
of Israel were required to observe throughout their generations, namely, the
great future of this creation, commencing with the great temporal work in the
morning of the seventh thousand years, wherein everything will be restored to
its proper condition, as it was in the animal creation, with the fowls and fish
and beasts, and man on the morning of the seventh day of creation.
Prior to this time, or during this period of time, wherein this second temporal work will commence, there will be a literal sounding of seven trumpets,
as recorded in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, page 278, electrotype edition, which you can read at your leisure. I will give you the words of the
revelation, so that you can read it when you go home. It is called the "Key

to the revelations given to St. John on Patmos." Joseph, inquiring of the
Lord about the sounding of the seven trumpets, is informed that the sounding
would take place, not directly near the close of the six thousand years, or
rather not during the period of the six thousand years, but after the seventh
thousand years should commence. He says that the sounding of the seven
trumpets typifies this: "That as God made the world in six days, and on the
seventh day he finished his work, and sanctified it, and also formed man out of
the dust of the earth; even so, in the beginning of the seventh thousand years
will the Lord God sanctify the earth and complete the salvation of man, and
judge all things, and shall redeem all things* except that which he has not put
into his power, when he shall have sealed all things, unto the end of all things;
and the sounding of the trumpets of the seven angels are the preparing and
finishing of his work, in the beginning of the seventh thousand years; the
preparing of the way before the time of his coming." Thus we see, that as
man in the beginning "was formed out of the dust of the earth" "on the
seventh day," in his immortal state, so he shall be brought forth in the resurrection from the dust of the grave, on the morning of the seventh thousand
years, by the sounding of these trumpets, to inherit certain blessings, even as
it was promised in the beginning.
We perceive, therefore, from the revelations of God, that the Lord instituted these ordinances and laws for the children of Israel for a double purpose,
not only to commemorate the past, but to keep in the vivid remembrance of
the children of Israel the great future, which they were never to lose .sight of.
Moreover, they were not only required, in the days of ancient Israel, to let
their lands remain uncultivated in the seventh year, and to rest, but the Lord
also, in order to doubly fix this idea upon their minds, established what is
termed a year of Jubilee. After seven times seven years had passed away
—
that is, forty-nine years—then came the fiftieth year, which seemed to be
above all the rest, so far as the observance thereof was concerned, and so far
as certain duties were required at their hands. It was to be a year of rest, a
year of jubilee— a year wherein all real estate that had been sold during the
past fifty years was to return again to the original owners. They could not
sell their lands as we sell ours; that was not permitted; no man could sell his
land in that time for fifty-one, fifty-two, nor one hundred years, nor to the
people and their heirs forever. No such thing existed in those days as now
exist in this and among other nations ; their lands could only be sold for fifty
years ; then came the year of redemption, wherein all lands that were sold
were to return to their original owners, or to the tribe, or their descendants, as
the case might be ; it matters not who bought it or paid for it, that was always
understood in the deed of sale. It was the custom in those ancient times to
purchase individuals for a certain term of years, in consequence of debts, &c,
that they may have contracted; they would buy the people, not exactly as hired
servants, but they were compelled, according to the laws of the nation, to remain in servitude for a certain period of time ; but that period never extended
beyond the year of Jubilee. When that notable year came, all those handmaidens and servants that may have been sold in consequence of the debts
that they had contracted, were to go free ; all had the promise of liberty. It
was a year of general release from bondage. There are a great many other

privileges that might be named, set forth in the revelations of God, that existed
in the year of Jubilee. Whether such a year will again be established by revelation, I do not certainly know; whether the Lord will command his servants to
commemorate past events by the establishment of such a custom, in a time to
come, is not fully revealed. It is revealed, however, in part, so that we may
draw some conclusions from what has been revealed in ancient times. Moses
says, by the word of the Lord, that when that people, Israel, should corrupt
themselves before the heavens, and should do after the manner of the abominations of the heathen nations round about—should forget the Lord their God,
should bow down to the idols of the heathen nations, and turn away from the
Lord, that he would send certain curses upon them, and among those curses
they were to be scattered to the uttermost parts of the earth, &c, as mentioned
in the 28th chapter of Deuteronomy. A long list of plagues is given that
should follow them among all the nations whither they should be driven. After
they had experienced all these things, Moses says: "When thou shalt return
unto the Lord thy God, and shall obey his voice, according to all that I command thee this day, thou and thy children, with all thy heart and with all thy
soul; that then the Lord thy God will turn thy captivity, and have compassion
upon thee, and will return and gather thee from all the nations, whither the
Lord thy God hath scattered thee. If any of thine be driven out unto the utmost parts of heaven, from thence will the Lord thy God gather thee, and
from thence will he fetch thee: And the Lord thy God will bring thee unto the
land which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it, and he will do
thee good and multiply thee above thy fathers." Now, notice the conditions
of this gathering: "And shall obey his voice according to all that I command thee this day." What were they commanded in that day? Among other
things they were commanded to keep the year of Jubilee; to keep a great many
other ordinances, such as the seventh year to let their land rest; also to keep
certan feasts, such as the feast of tabernacles and the passover; and many
other things, all of which were commanded in that day, and in that age, by the
mouth of the servant of God, even Moses ; when they should remember all
these things, even every commandment, not neglecting one, then the Lord
their God, should permit them to enjoy all the blessings of the promised land.
I draw the conclusion, from this saying, that there will be a time when Israel
shall return to their own lands, and that they will again keep the year of jubilee; I draw the conclusion that they will also offer up, as it is written in the
Scriptures, offerings to the Lord; that they will keep all the commandments
given unto them through the servant of God, even Moses. How long these
institutions, given to Moses, will be observed; how long they will be compelled or required to give heed to that which he commanded them, through
Moses, I do not know. The time may come, when they prove to the Lord
that they can keep those commandments and do his will—the time may come
when some of these ordinances may be done away.
But because such events may happen among Israel in their great future, is
no evidence that we, as Latter-day Saints, should institute any of these things
among ourselves, unless we are directed by divine revelation from the heavens. I do not know that we are under any obligations to keep any of the ordinances, rites, and ceremonies, that were given in the days of Moses, unless

we receive direct revelation for ourselves in relation to these matters. If the
Lord should, at some future period of the history of this Curch, see proper to
give us a commandment to keep every fiftieth year sacred unto him, in order
to commemorate certain events that took place in the past, I think that this
people will be ready and willing to obey such a commandment.
Among Israel, in ancient days, they had the law of plurality of marriage.
Did we adopt that in this Church from these old, ancient commandments? No,
we did not. Did that give us any authority in the least? No; the laws
given to Moses have no bearing upon us, unless God should renew his commandments and laws to us as a people; for we profess, like Israel of old, to
be under the direction and guidance of new revelation. Like the Church of
God in all former ages, we receive no new ordinances, neither old ordinances,
only by new revelation. Did we presume to baptize with water on the authority of old revelation? No. Did we presume to lay hands upon the people to
confirm upon them the Holy Ghost, by the authority of ancient revelation?
No. Did we presume to establish the Church of Jesus Christ, or organize it,
about fifty years ago, because they established one eighteen hundred years
ago and upwards? No. Did we presume to officiate in any order of the
priesthood by virtue of any ancient revelation given to the ancient Saints?
No. We did not undertake to do any of these things by virtue of former revelation; but all we have done in this Church has been done by direct communication and revelation from heaven ; all the ordinances that we administer
have been directed by new revelation; all the priesthood that this people hold
this day was given by new revelation ; all the various duties of the priesthood
to be performed by us in our day were given by new revelation; and we would
not dare presume to enter into this or that form of marriage, pertaining to
plural matrimony, by any former revelation; it has been by new revelation
that these things have been done.
We say that this is the kingdom of God, established on the earth. We
say that it was organized by divine revelation. We say that the authority was
sent down from heaven and conferred upon the heads of mortal man in our
generation. We have seen these things in the former days of this Church, or
at least in the first rise of the Church. The Lord our God was pleased to
confer the authority that is symbolized by these pictures here in this hall. We
have no authority given by any other people, any other nation, any other sect,
any other denomination; we do not consider their pretensions to divine authority worth the ashes of a rye straw—we mean the whole of their authority
put together. Hence the Lord has given all these things by his own power.
Now, if this be the kingdom of God, as we testify, organized and set up by his
own divine will, the authority restored by his own power, the ordinances renewed by divine revelation, what then should we expect in the future ? Should
we expect to lay down these principles in the future, and say they are no
longer required? No. In all our future doings, in all our future journeyings,
in all our future administrations among the inhabitants of the earth, from this
time henceforth and forever, the Lord our God is our Lawgiver, the Lord our
God is our King, the Lord our God is our Revelator, the Lord our God will
direct in all these things.
The year of jubilee! These are words that sound very pleasantly to my

ears. I am looking forward to the Great Jubilee that is now near at hand, and
when I hear the words spoken from this stand, when I read these ordinances
that were instituted among ancient Israel, and when my thoughts reach out to
the great future, to the time when there will be a jubilee indeed, my heart rejoices before the Lord. A jubilee for all the Saints of God, wherein they will
be subject to no power, save it be the. power of God and the power that he
has ordained; wherein there will be no earthly governments to triumph over
the Saints of that kingdom; wherein there will be but one government upon
the face of the whole earth, and the dominion and the greatness of that dominion and that kingdom will extend forth under the whole heavens. It will
be a time of jubilee—a time wherein the inhabitants of the earth will rejoice, a
time wherein the inhabitants of heaven will rejoice, a time when the inhabitants of heaven will join with the inhabitants of the earth in one great, grand,
general assembly, although we will afterwards be permitted to spread forth in
our generations over the face of the earth, to perform various duties required
at our hands ; but yet, in the commencement of that gcand period it will be a
general assembly of the Church of the First-born—of the living and the dead
who have died in Christ. Jesus will be our King; he will be our Lawgiver
;
he will reign over us. The resurrected Saints will be with us. We will hear
the words of their mouths. They will also be kings and priests; they will
administer among their households of the generations that shall be in mortal
flesh; they will be called the priests of God, and will administer in power and
great glory during the happy period of the Millennium.
A year of Jubilee ! No sorrow, no sighing, no bondage among the people
of God, but all will be free, full of joy, full of blessings ; and this jubilee will
last for one thousand years. Amen.









