ELDER ERASTUS SNOW.
St. Paul once said, "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of
all men most miserable." He said this to the ancient Saints in reference to

the spirit of hatred and persecution raging in the world against the Apostles
and their followers. I have sometimes thought, when we hear and read of the
vituperation and lies abroad in the earth concerning this people, when we see
how they are misrepresented and slandered, it would seem as if the flood gates
of hell were opened to swallow them up, and we might at times almost despair
were it not for the assurance that we feel that God is with us, that the Lord of
Hosts is our God, and he has led us until the present time, and we are encouraged to continue our efforts and labors with the feeling and assurance that
he has not departed from us, that he has not cast us off, notwithstanding our
follies and the many evils in our midst, and notwithstanding that the servants
of God are called upon to speak by way of reproof and ofttimes to rebuke
with sharpness. God has spoken by one of the ancient prophets in this wise:
'•Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful." The word of the Lord, though it be sharp like a two-edged sword, has
salvation in it. It is the power of God unto salvation to all them that believe,
and by the sharpness of the word of God are we brought to comprehend ourselves, to see ourselves as God sees us, and to purge evil from our midst.
And it becomes us to lay to heart the word spoken, and it should begin with
the Apostles, Presidents of Stakes, Bishops, the Presidents of Quorums, and
heads of families and run through all the organizations of society, and the
spirit of repentance, of reformation and of purification should flow in our
midst, flow through the people in all our organizations until every man,
woman and child shall feel that the Spirit of God rests upon them; we should
put away evil, and endeavor to overcome the world, to withstand the influences
of the hosts of hell, to resist the example of evil minded persons, to resist
temptations of pride and vanity, and cease to be hypocritical; in other words,
to be honest before God and one another, for his eye is upon us. Our ways
are openly known unto him. I,t becomes not his people to seek to hide their
ways from the Lord. Hypocrites*do this. Many of the Gentile Christians do
this, as did many of the ancient Jewish Pharisees, for which they were rebuked with severity by the teachings of the Savior. None of us need think
that we shall be benefitted by covering up our uncleanness and expect that we
shall be sanctified by the outer ordinances of the temple of our God, when
the inner man is corrupt. There is power in all the ordinances of God's
house to all those whose hearts are clean, who accept the ordinances of God
in faith and with purity of purpose. The Gospel of Christ is a savor of life
unto life to all those that receive it in honest hearts, while it is a savor of death
unto death to all those that reject and handle the truth in unrighteousness. So
with all the ordinances pertaining to the priesthood. They bring condemnation to the hypocrite and evil doer, while they bring sanctification to those
who are clean in spirit. And the priesthood which we have received with the
keys and ordinances thereof can only be received and handled in connection
with the powers of heaven, and on principles of truth and righteousness. The
Lord has restored all the keys of this priesthood unto Israel in the last days
through his servant Joseph by the hands of the ancients who held the priesthood before him, who bore the keys of the kingdom when they were upon the
earth in ancient times; the Apostles Peter, James and John, and John the
Baptist, from whom he received the priesthood pertaining to the gospel of re-

pentance and baptism for the remission of sins and the promise that this
priesthood should not again be taken from the earth until the sons of Levi
should be purified and all that was promised Israel should.be fulfilled; and
however much individuals may fall away from Zion and forfeit their blessings,
however much men may apostatize from the truth, and iniquity abound, and
the love of many wax cold, yet the Lord will work in the midst of his people,
turning and overturning, rebuking and cleansing, until he has performed all
he has promised. And when the times of the Gentiles shall be fulfilled, the
power of God will be made manifest in the redemption of the House of Israel.
As it is written, "And so all Israel shall be saved. There shall come out of
Zion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob." Knowing
this, the Apostle Paul says to the Romans, who were Gentiles, "Be not highminded, but fear: For if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest
he also spare not thee. Behold, therefore, the goodness and severity of God;
on them which fell severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in
his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off." This is the work which
God has commenced on the earth, to fulfil the promises made to Abraham
concerning his seed, and the promises made to Joseph concerning his seed,
the degenerate sons of America, among whom God is working in his own
marvelous and wonderful manner, preparing their hearts for the changes that
await them in accordance with his promises, when the cup of iniquity shall be
filled up in the midst of the Gentiles, and his jndgment shall be poured out
upon them to break them in pieces as a potter's vessel is broken.
We are witnesses of these things and know the things whereof we speak,
and we rejoice in the manifestation of the spirit bearing witness of these things
among the people of God, and though there are many who are negligent in
duty, dark in their understanding, covetous in their hearts, worldly minded
and cling to this world and are more or less beset therewith, yet the Lord is
working in the midst of his people; for poor, frail, feeble, faulty, sinful as we
are, taken as a whole, we are the best the Lord has been able to find, and
therefore he is not disposed to cast us off, but to reprove, admonish and instruct, that he may make us what he has called us to be in deed and in truth,
saints of the last days.
May God help us to keep our covenants, cleanse ourselves from sin, our
hearts from all hypocrisy, our persons, our habitations, our towns and our
cities; and may our municipal officers as well as our ecclesiastical officers
have wisdom, strength, power, nerve, and energy to stem the current of crime,
to check the progress of drunkenness, whoredom, profanity, and all manner of
abomination, and execute judgment and justice in the land with firmness,
vigor, and strength ; and may God bless every officer of the law who magnifies his calling with soberness, diligence, and honesty, and every Apostle,
President, Bishop, Elder, Priest, Teacher and Deacon who labors to put away
evil from himself, his household and the community, and every mother in
Israel who teaches her children righteousness and faith, and every organization for the improvement of the rising generation. May grace and peace be
multiplied upon them through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, Amen.

