ELDEB FBANKLIN D. BICHAEDS.:
Forty-two years next June I had become convinced of the truth of the
principles of the Gospel that had been taught to me, at the age of seventeen
years ; having received the word from the testimony of our aged veteran Joseph
Young, sen., president of the Seventies, in my native State, Massachusetts.
I found the principles of the Gospel very harmonious to my feelings, although
very much opposed to the views of my friends and neighbors. It offered to
me the ancient blessings restored, if I would but receive them. I considered
the matter carefully and prayerfully, and ascertained that there was but one
way of finding out positively whether the Gospel was true or not, or whether
what was taught to me as the gospel was indeed such; and that the whole subject was made to turn upon the saying of the Savior, "If any man will do His
(the Father's) will he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or
whether I speak of myself." And finding that there was only one way to
come to a demonstration of the matter fairly and honestly, I concluded that if
those gifts and blessings were restored to the human family, which were anciently given God's people to enjoy, I wanted to obtain them even at the risk
of expatriation from my family, my friends and associates upon rendering a
penitent obedience to the ordinance of baptism for the remission of my sins.
The Lord answered my prayers, blessed me with an outpouring of the Holy
Spirit, and gave me a certain revelation therewith, which made me to know
that he took cognizance of me personally, and that this was none other than
the great work of God. From that time I have never seen the moment that I
doubted or felt uncertain or fearful concerning the progress of the work, or
the ultimate triumph of its outcome. I have not only received such testimony,
but also many of the various manifestations of the Spirit recorded in the Bible
and promised in the revelations which mankind have a right, through obedience and faithfulness in this mortal life, to enjoy.
The gifts of prophecy, of tongues and the interpretation of tongues, of
healing and being healed, and a great variety that we will not take time to
enumerate, even to the casting out of devils. These gifts and blessings, signs
and mercies, have been bestowed upon not only myself, but upon my brethren
of the Council, the faithful Elders, and the Saints generally. It is no strange
thing among us that any one enjoys these blessings, ail of them having been
promised unto those who believe and obey the Gospel message. It is only to
be wondered at that more of us do not get nearer to God and realize more of
them than we do; it is the only or greatest regret that I have to-day that any
unfaithfulness on my part in the performance of my duties should hinder me
from participating more fully in the enjoyment of God's favors, and advancing
more rapidly in the knowledge of himself and of his ways.
A man in this Church, who is an Elder in Israel, must have a degree of
heroism if he is determined to be a servant of God, he must know what it is
to be able to stand up in the spirit and power of his calling under all circumstances. God requires him to live and serve him with all his heart, with all
his mind, might and strength ; and to give himself wholly unto the work to
which he has been called, and to have no other business on hand except those
things which are subservient to the interests of his Church and Kingdom. I
want to say to the brethren, that we as Elders in Israel have come not only to

prophecy but to revelation; I testify to you that while you are sustaining the
Twelve Apostles as such—as the presiding quorum, and as prophets, seers
and revelators in the Church of Christ, that your faith and prayers are not in
vain, that God is answering them, that he is fulfilling them in your brethren of
that quorum, and you will see from time to time more abundantly the fruits,
blessings and powers resulting therefrom in a greatly increased degree.
Therefore, continue your union, your faith, and prayers, and God will multiply
his blessings still more abundantly upon us all. There is more union among
the brethren of the Council, there is more love and fellowship existing among
them, they are increasing in those graces and qualities which made the bonds
of brotherhood strong and powerful to resist successfully the encroaching
powers of darkness, and to become strong in the name of our God—to accomplish all the work required at our hands. Those graces we see most
abundantly shining forth in the ministration and counsel of President John
Taylor who is our leader.
I want to say, for the benefit of strangers present, that this work in which
we are engaged, is the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, in which God
has promised to gather together in one all things in Christ, be they things of
heaven or things of earth, or, he might have said all persons and things, for
that is the fact. All Christendom has become permeated with the belief that
the second advent of the Savior is approaching and not very far off, so, also,
the spirit of gathering has commenced, and if you will have your eyes open
and watch the signs of the times, you will see that the spirit of the gathering
is becoming more and more widespread, and is reaching Israel in all their
abidings; they are becoming interested in and waked up to the importance of
their gathering together. It is not only an item of news that the Israelites
have got hold of the land of Canaan, but it is a commencement of the work
that will gather the house of Judah and restore their land to fruitfulness—
a
land which will become glorious ; and the House of the Lord which is to be
built there is to be far more glorious than the former one. •
Not only that, but the heavenly tocsin is sounding to the Ten Tribes, and
they are preparing themselves to come forth and make manifest the power of
God and be established with his people upon the land of Zion promised.
And if any of you doubt it, enquire among the Indians of our land and you
will find that they are having dreams and visions from above, and are beginning
to enquire after the word of God, and to wonder whether they are cast off and
forsaken, and to be crowded quite into the sea, or whether the promises made
to their race by their ancient prophets and patriarchs shall be fulfilled as recorded in the Book of Mormon.
The Lord has commenced his work and it has taken a firm footing in the
earth, and he has assured us that he will carry it on; and although we are
frowned upon by forty millions of people who tell us that we cannot live and
exercise ourselves in all the ordinances and institutions of Christ's Church in
this land; let me tell you there are a hundred times forty millions in yonder
heavens who are watching over and urging us to perform the heavenly requirements made to us from on high. Which do you think we shall give heed
to? One of ancient times, when he thought that appearances were rather
threatening, began to manifest considerable concern. And the prophet

Elisha, seeing the timidity of the young man, prayed unto the Lord to open
his eyes. Whereupon, we are told, that he saw the mountain on which he
stood was filled with horses and chariots of fire encircling the prophet round
about, demonstrating to his entire satisfaction the words of his master which
were uttered just previously, namely, that "they that be with us are more than
they that be with them," the forty millions to the contrary notwithstanding.
Hence then, whom shall we obey? My brethren and sisters, let us obey and
serve the Most High God, hearken to his counsels and keep the commandments which he has given unto us, even every word that proceeds from his
mouth, including the "word of wisdom" which he in his goodness has made
known to us, for anything that is worthy for him to give unto us is worthy for
us to keep in the most sacred manner.
Now let me say to the poor—for this conference has been fraught with
blessing unto them—you who shall be forgiven your back indebtedness upon
tithing, commence anew to tithe yourselves ; be men of God, take hold of that
duty and henceforth live determined to honor it with other requirements in the
Church. The Savior anciently said, in speaking to the Jews, "If ye were the
children of Abraham, you would do the works of Abraham." One of the
most prominent features of father Abraham's life was to leave his native land,
and go to a land which he knew not of, but which the Lord should show him.
And having done this, there was a time when he was met by the minister of
God, Melchisedek, when he was on his return from a triumphant victory over
certain kings, on which occasion Melchisedek congratulated him on his success, when he, as if to reciprocate this minister's kindness, "gave him tithes
of all," which law of tithing, if you please, he handed down to his generations
after him. Let us regard it in like manner, for it is a standing law unto us upon this land. And if we do not live it and carry it out, with all other requirements, this, we are told, shall not be a land of Zion unto us.
And unto the brethren who shall be released from their P. E. Fund indebtedness, I would say, lift up your hearts and be glad, take fresh courage
when you are released from that obligation, and endeavor to make yourselves
more useful. Strengthen yourselves in the the name of the Lord; let the
weak say, I am strong; and let all the people know that the Lord Most High
is our God, and lei us give ourselves wholly to his service.
Let the poor rejoice in the kindness and liberality of God and their
brethren to them. Let the rich be glad that God has given unto them the
means whereby they can bestow blessings upon the poor.
God requires in his mercy that they who have an abundance shall impart
with a kindly regard for the destitute, or his blessing will not rest upon them
and their substance.
My brethren and sisters, by the authority of the apostlcship God has bestowed upon me, I feel to bless you in all your interests, your wives and
children and all that pertain to you, your fields, your orchards and gardens,
your flocks and herds; hoping and praying that we may become more
abundantly devoted to him, and that he may accept of us and lead us forth
from faith to faith, and from grace to grace until the little stone rolls down
from the mountains and fills the whole earth.

May God preserve us in the faith as he has hitherto done, and help us to
do his biddings so long as we dwell in the flesh, through Christ our Lord.
Amen.

