ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH.
While listening to Brother Young, my mind reverted to one or two passages in the early revelations given to the Church, which would seem, from the
testimony we have had from him, to be somewhat applicable at the present
time as well as at the time the revelations were given, and I thought I would
refer to, and perhaps read a few of these passages, so that we can reflect upon
them ourselves. [The speaker then read from the first to the tenth verse of
the revelation given to Joseph Smith June 22, 1834, page yj7 °f the new edition of Doctrine and Covenants; also from a revelation given December 16,
1833, first to the nineteenth verse, same book, page 349.]
I realize that I am speaking to people that have joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and as members of that Church, profess
faith in the Gospel as it has been revealed in this dispensation. It would
seem, sometimes, almost superfluous to keep preaching upon these plain and
simple principles, which all ought to understand and be anxious to carry out.
Nevertheless we find it necessary, and therefore we continue to preach, expound, exhort and to plead with the people, our brethren and sisters in the
covenant of the Gospel, to keep the commandments of God which they have
covenanted to keep. The Lord keeps pleading with us ; he has to forbear
with us, to extend mercy, kindness and forgiveness day after day. For we are
very forgetful, careless, indifferent and thoughtless of our duties. It is only
when the Spirit of the Lord is upon us that we can really sense the responsibilities that we are under to God and to each other. When we are engaged in
the daily avocations of life our minds are occupied with other things; we are
thinking how to make means, or get wealth, how to provide for our necessities
and to make our families comfortable. These thoughts take possession of our
minds and exclude reflections upon the commandments of God which we have
covenanted to keep, and which, by keeping, we would avoid all the errors,

evils and follies that have been referred to by Elder Young, to which so many
of us are liable, notwithstanding we are professedly Latter-day Saints. It
was said by our Savior, to those who professed to be his disciples, "Except
your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the Scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." Now, when I
see a Latter-day Saint, or, rather, a person who professes to be a Latter-day
Saint, guilty of drunkenness, of profanity, of dishonesty, or cheating his
neighbor, or of bearing false witness against his brother, I say in my heart
that that man is two-fold more a child of hell than as though he had never been
baptized; for "to him thatknoweth how to do good and doeth it not, to him it
is sin," saith the Apostle James. And verily it is true in relation to those who
profess to be Latter-day Saints, who should know to do good, for they have
covenanted to do that which is right and forsake that which is evil. That
covenant has been made with God, and is recorded in the archives of heaven
as well as upon the earth. If we take a course to violate our covenants, we
declare our unworthiness before him with whom those covenants are made,
who understands the nature of the covenants and of the obligations we are
under, and must regard us as transgressors, far more worthy of chastisement
than those who have never entei'ed into covenant with the Lord to keep
his laws. Is not this correct, sound, just and reasonable doctrine? Is not
this the way in which we would judge ourselves and regard one another? Do
we not look upon our neighbor, who has made a promise to us and has wilfully
and intentionally broken that promise, as untrustworthy, as untrue to his word,
and unworthy of our confidence and esteem? Certainly. Then how much
more will God, who is perfect, who sees clearly the end from the beginning,
look upon us with disfavor, who have received the Holy Ghost by the laying
on of hands, and therefore the means of knowing the way of life, if we turn
away from the truth and disregard our vows and covenants with God and each
other. Are, we not, under the circumstances, worthy of condemnation and
chastisement? If the wicked, who will not repent of their sins, and who
therefore know not God nor keep his commandments, will be destroyed for
their wickedness, how much more worthy of destruction will they be who.
having once repented of their sins and learned the way of life, have turned
from their righteousness again to their evil practices and ways?
It is said here, in the language that I have read, "Zion cannot be built up
unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom, otherwise I
cannot receive her unto myself." In other words, those who profess to be
Latter-day Saints must become acquainted with the laws of the celestial kingdom, must abide by them, must comply with the requirements of heaven and
hearken to the word of the Lord, in order that Zion may be built up acceptably, and that we may partake of the benefits and blessings of this labor. For
it is a labor which devolves upon those who have been called out from the
midst of the world in this dispensation. We have been called, and so far as
we will be faithful we are chosen to do this work. But notwithstanding we
have been called, if we do not prove faithful we will be rejected. I do not
speak this in reference to the whole Church, but in reference to individual
members of the Church : for it is my implicit faith and belief that this work
will never cease, that it will never be given to another people, and that the

purposes and designs of God will be accomplished, for he has decreed it. In
one sense we are not doing this work, for it is not the work of man, neither
individually nor collectively, nor of any single quorum of the priesthood, nor
of all the quorums combined, except God is with them. In other words, it is
God Almighty who will accomplish this work, and he will use such instruments as he can find for its accomplishment, and those instruments will be
honored and blessed of the Lord, and will share in the rewards, exaltation and
glory of Zion. Yet the honor, glory and power must be ascribed unto the
Father, Son and Holy Spirit, now and forever, for it is God's work and not
the work of man. We often hear it said that if such and such a man should
lead the Church that he would lead it to destruction. I will say, in the name
of the Lord, that if any man were to lead the Church of Jesus Christ he would
lead it to destruction ; that is, if the Church would follow. But I will say, on
the other hand, that if God Almighty chooses a man to lead the Church, God
will speak through that man. It will not be the man that will lead the Church,
but it will be God that will do it through that instrumentality, and we will give
the honor to God; we will not arrogate the credit or the honor to ourselves.
But we cannot build up Zion except upon the principles of righteousness.
Men must forsake their wickedness, their lusts, covetousness, greed, and love
of the pleasures of the world, and bring themselves under the laws of God, or
they never will partake of the blessings and glory of Zion. And that is not
all. It is said in the book of Doctrine and Covenants, that we must be willing
to make a sacrifice of everything that we possess in the world for the Kingdom of God's sake, and the man or woman that presumes to lay claim to the
gift of eternal life, who is unwilling to make this sacrifice, will be offering an
insult to the dignity of the Creator. (See Sixth Lecture on Faith.) It is written that we must love the Lord with all our hearts, and our neighbor as we love
ourselves. When we reach this point, we shall not be liable to the accusation
of loving the world more than we love God. It will then be easy to make any
sacrifice for the sake of truth, though it be the sacrifice of life itself; that is,
this present life. Jesus said: "Fear not them which kill the body, but are not
able to kill the soul; but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and
body in hell." Rather fear God than man. Rather fear to offend the Almighty than to offend mankind. Rather fear to trangress the laws of God
than those of men.
There are some few, so called, very good Latter-day Saints, who have
formed the acquaintance of those who are not members of the Church, and
because of these associations they are led into saloons to drink with them, not
daring to refuse for fear of offending their friends ! I say a man who is so
weak as to do that is not fit to be an Elder in the Church of Jesus Christ, nor
to be fellowshipped, or held as in good standing in the ward in which he lives.
Why? Because his example is bad. He shows weakness and unworthiness
before the Lord and mankind. He has not the strength of character to refuse
to join his friend in doing an evil, for fear of offending that friend. The same
principle would lead him, and, by his example, others perhaps, to gambling,
stealing, profanity, whoredom, or anything else in the catalogue of crime. I
love a man who dares refuse to do wrong, no matter where he is nor what the
wrong even to drinking hot drinks, or neglecting the " Word of Wisdom."

Many of our good people have become so weak that, according to the "Word
of Wisdom," they are not worthy to be called Saints, for it is "adapted to the
capacity of the weak and the weakest of all Saints who are or can be called
Saints." But says one, " If I am offered a cup of tea or a cup coffee I cannot
refuse it." Then, according to the word of the Lord, you are too weak to be a
Latter-day Saint.
It has been said that Brother Joseph F. Smith is "radical." Perhaps so,
for when I °ive my word I expect to fulfil it ; I always have felt so, and always
have endeavored to keep my word whenever I have given it. Those to whom
my word is given have a right to expect and demand its fulfilment, or a justifiable reason for failing to do so. And if ever I fail to fulfil my word, I hope
to be able to give a sufficient reason for it. I do not presume that I am better
than the Lord, I do not think that man can be better than God; I therefore
suppose that when God has given his word that he will fulfil it; I suppose
that when he makes a requirement of men he expects them to comply therewith, and doubly so when they have agreed to comply, and if they fail, I am
simple enough to believe with all my heart that God Almighty will demand
satisfaction. Does any one call me radical for that? If so, then I confess
that I am radical. When I read the laws of God in this good book (the Bible),
that the liar, the hypocrite, the sorcerer, and the adulterer, cannot enter the
kino-dom of heaven, I understand that that is what is meant. I can give it no
other construction or meaning, therefore I believe that liars, adulterers, drunkards, sorcerers, &c, &c, will not get into the kingdom of heaven, without
they repent and make restitution for the wrongs they have done ; God has
opened the way of escape for those that will hearken to and avail themselves
of" the privileges of the Gospel. " Who is there," says the Lord, " that hath
understanding, that I have not called to repentance." There is not one that
God has not called to repentance, which means the forsaking of sin, a departure from evil to do righteousness and walk in the way of life and salvation. I
understand that unless we do this we will be weighed in the balance and found
wanting. Can you take any other view of these matters? How can a man
excuse himself for drunkenness, when he knows that it is injurious to himself,
to his family and others, and is forbidden by the law of God, and is a violation
of the most sacred covenants he can make? How can a man excuse himself
under these circumstances? What reason will he be able to give before God?
How can he escape the damnation that awaits the wicked? It is written that
" not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom
of heaven." No; but those who keep the commandments of God, who walk
righteously before him; they shall say "Lord, Lord," and the Lord will
hearken unto them.
The cry of the angel was, "Come out of her (Babylon), my people, that
ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." The
doom of Babylon is sealed. The judgments of God will be poured out upon
her; they are at the door; the wicked will perish; Babylon will fall, for God
has decreed it. They have rejected the prophets, and have shed the blood of
the Saints and of those who brought life and salvation unto them. They have
cast out the Church of Christ from their midst and have called it evil ; they
have blackened the character of those that have taken leading parts in the

Church and Kingdom of God. Therefore, the cup of her iniquity is about
full, and the cry is, " Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of
her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues." Now what will it avail us
to come out of Babylon, if we bring Babylon with us, or continue her practices in Zion? It does not look to me as though it would be much benefit. I
read, in the sixth chapter of the second epistle of Paul to the Corinthians,
something that is applicable to some of us in our present condition. Paul
says: " Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers; for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And what communion hath
light with darkness? And what concord hath Christ with Belial? Or what
part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the
Temple of God with idols? For ye are the Temple of the living God; as God
hath said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and
they shall be my people. Wherefore, come out from among them, and be ye
separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive
you, and will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters,
saith the Lord Almighty." Do you want any stronger language than that? Do
you want any stricter command? for it is the word of God to us, although it is
recorded here in the Second Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, and written
eighteen hundred years ago, or more, to the ancient Saints. It applies equally
to us. The Bible contains the law of God to this people. The Lord says:
"Thou shalt take the things which thou hast received, which have been given
unto thee in my Scriptures for a law, to be my law to govern my Church, and
he that doeth according to these things shall be saved, and he that doeth them
not shall be damned, if he continues." Thus you see the Bible is in force,
and this is the word of the Lord to the people, " Come out from among them,
and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing." Do not
assimilate to their ways, but forsake them, and in the name of reason and humanity, for the sake of the kingdom and for your own sakes, do not let it be
necessary for an Elder of Israel to repeat on the stand what has been stated
this day in your hearing by Elder Brigham Young. Let it not be necessary to
proclaim these evils among the Latter-day Saints at a Conference of the people; let it be possible when we come together for the Elders who speak to testify of the good works of the people, of their increasing faith in God, of the
power of God manifest in their midst, and to exhort the people to continued
faithfuluess and progress in the right path, until Zion shall be redeemed, the
world subdued, and evil put under foot. Zion must be built up on the principles of righteousness, truth, and obedience to the laws of God; not an ignorant nor a "blind obedience " or submission to the requirements of heaven or
the dictates of the priesthood, but an intelligent submission to the laws of God;
for the Lord has said that he " requireth the heart and a willing mind, and the
willing and the obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last
days; and the rebellious shall be cut off out of the land of Zion, and shall be
sent away, and shall not inherit the land."
May the Lord bless us as a people, and help us to be united, to be more
faithful and upright, to live our religion, so that our righteousness may exceed
that of the Scribes and Pharisees of this dispensation, and to keep aloof from
the wicked and ungodly, is my earnest prayer, in the name of Jesus. Amen.

