PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.
I have been very much interested—as no doubt you all have—in listening
to the principles that have been unfolded to us this day, in this house. I was
going to say I almost wish the house was a little larger; but, then, upon reflection, it is right enough; it was not intended to be as large as the tabernacle.
The large tabernacle is a place for the assembling of the people in General
Conference, and on public occasions, and it has.become a question whether we
had better go into the other building or continue in this to-morrow. However,
the weather is a little cold and inclement at present, and perhaps by the
sixth of April it may be a little warmer and more comfortable. If not, we shall
have to do the best we can. As I stated, this building is not intended for a
General Conference, but for holding meetings in the winter time when the
weather is cold, and as a Stake house to hold Priesthood and quarterly Conferences in, where all may be warm and comfortable ; and so far as that is
concerned, it seems to me that the house will accomplish all that is required
in this respect. And then for our Conference meetings we have the large tabernacle, which will hold, I suppose, three or four times more people than this
will. I am sorry that there should be a necessity for any to turn away; but we
cannot always help these things, and it is better for those that are here to be
comfortable, than for all to be uncomfortable, cold and unpleasant.
In regard to the work in which we are engaged, we all feel to a certain
extent interested therein, and there are many points that it will be necessary
for us to reflect upon. One is, that it is ''not every one that saith unto me,
Lord, Lord, that shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the
will of my Father which is in heaven." And it is for us to square our lives
according to the principles laid down for all of us ; for all of the officers ; for
the Twelve and their Counselors; for the Presidents of Stakes and their
Counselors; for High Priests, for Seventies, Elders, Priests, Teachers and
Deacons ; and for every man to magnify his calling with singleness of heart
before God, and to feel that God demands of us righteousness, truth and integrity in our hearts ; that we cleave unto him, observe his laws and keep his
commandments; and if we do this, then the blessings of which we have heard
are ours; if we do not we shall not possess them.
I do not wish to talk long, as the time has expired. I thought I would make
a very few remarks. There are other things to attend to ; but for the present
I will desist.

