ELDER ORSON PRATT.
I do feel with all my heart to thank the Lord our God for the blessings
conferred upon this people. Our year of Jubilee, if we may so term it, is past.
We entered upon it the sixth day of April, 1879—
l
ast Tuesday was the end of
it. We are now living in the fifty-first year of the organization of this Kingdom. At the close, or near the close of this first half century, the Lord has
been very kind and merciful in behalf of the poor; he has put it into the hearts
of his servants to administer liberally and bountifully for their good. It is to
be hoped that the fiftieth year will not close up those great and good acts, on
the part of the Church, as well as on the part of individuals in the Stakes of
Zion, for and in behalf of the poor: but that the good work may continue, and
that all the poor and the needy may be supplied, so far as circumstances will
permit, with the necessaries of life. So much upon that subject.
In regard to the future, it has been a duty devolving upon me, in connection with hundreds of others, to declare not only the Gospel, but to portray
before the people future events. There are great things in the future, and we
are sometimes apt to forget them. We have been looking, for some time past,
for the Lord to accomplish and fulfill the times of the Gentiles; or the times
allotted to them, during which the testimonies of his servants should go forth
among them ; or in other words, the times of the warning of the Gentile nations, the gathering out of their midst, a few here and there, of the believing
Gentiles, away from the corruptions of Great Babylon, preparatory to the destructions that are to be poured out without measure upon the Gentile nations.
These things have been sounded so long in the ears of the Latter-day Saints,
that I have sometimes thought they have become like a pleasing song, or like a
dream, and that they scarcely realize that these great events are at hand, even
at the doors. But if we can depend upon the word of the Lord, if we can depend upon the predictions recorded in the Scriptures of truth—if we can depend upon modern revelation which God has given—there is a time of tribulation, of sorrow, of great judgment, of great wrath and indignation, to come
upon the nations of the earth, such as has not been since the foundation of
the world. And these things are not far off, but are near at hand, and who, in
that day, that has any sympathy in their hearts, any feelings of humanity, but
will mourn and sorrow over the calamities that will fall upon the nations. I
know that these things are true. I have known these things ever since the
autumn of 1830; and I know that God will fulfil his word, and that the day is
almost at our doors, when God will pour out his indignation, without measure,
upon the nations of the earth; and they will be swallowed up with judgments
and calamities of all kinds and descriptions.
I have sometimes reflected upon a new witness that the Lord seems to
have brought to light, by the opening of the Great Pyramid of Egypt. There
are many things revealed by the opening of that Pyramid, nearly 3000 years
after it was built, that are great and marvellous, so far as I can understand
them. There seems to be a prophetic spirit running through the construction
of all that vast superstructure, pointing forward to the very end. Among the
great events clearly portrayed by that Pyramid, was the organization of this
Church on the sixth of April, 1830. This is expressed in the construction of the
" Great Step," in the Grand Gallery of that Pyramid. Time was measured

in that ascending gallery by sacred cubit inches. The measurement from the
birth of Christ to the upper edge of the " Step," which terminates the ascending passage, was exactly 1829 cubit inches, and the fraction of another inch;
that is, a little over the twenty-sixth hundredth part of an inch. Allowing one
year to a cubit inch, it gives the sixth of April, 1830, as the exact time, corresponding to the upper edge of the " Grand Step." At this point the Gallery
ceases to ascend, and the passage becomes horizontal. This points out the
very period of time when the Church was organized, and the very day and
month and year. Sixty-one cubit inches are measured off, from that point in a
horizontal direction, until you come to the great impending wall
r the end of
the Gallery. What that means, I do not pretend to know. It may mean the
closing up of the times of the Gentiles. Sixty-one years from the organization of the Church brings us, according to pyramidal testimony, to the end of
something. Whether these pyramidal symbols are divine or not, there is one
thing that I do know is true, namely, that the generation in which the fulness
of the Gospel—the Book of Mormon—was brought forth, is the generation
that will close up the times of the Gentiles. That I know, if I do not know
much about the Pyramid. I know the former by revelation. I know that the
days of the Gentiles are but very few; the end of the dispensation to them is
now drawing very near to a close. God has revealed this work. His arm was
made bare in the restoration of this Church. His arm was made bare in sending his angels from heaven to restore the everlasting priesthood and authority
to the children of men. His power was made manifest in the organization of
the Kingdom that must stand forever. These things are not a matter of opinion with me. I know them to be true. God revealed them to me in my youth.
I have known them from that day to this. And the work of God will prosper,
will prevail, will accomplish that whereunto it is sent, until every nation under
heaven shall receive sufficient warning, and then will come the terrible, the
dreadful downfall of Great Babylon. Awake, therefore, O ye inhabitants of
Zion! Awake to the importance of your duties! Awake to the duties of the
everlasting priesthood which has been conferred upon you by the servants of
the living God. Seek after God with all your hearts, with all your souls, and
with all your might, mind and strength, that you may be prepared for the
events that are in the future, not only to be preserved when the great desolations of Babylon shall take place, but also to be partakers in all the blessings
ordained to be bestowed upon Zion in the latter days. Awake for the redemption of Zion is very near, when this people shall possess again their inheritances upon the promised land; when this people shall erect unto the Lord a
house and build up that city called Zion, wherein the glory of our God shall
be made manifest upon all the inhabitants that are counted worthy to dwell in
the midst thereof.
May God bless this Conference and the Latter-day Saints everywhere—
upon the mountains, in the valleys, and throughout the Territories where they
dwell; that the Spirit of the living God may be with us, with our wives, with
our children, and with all who desire to serve the living God ; that the destroyer
may be rebuked from our midst, and that we may rise up as the children of
Zion, and do the work which the Lord our God requires at our hands. Amen.

