ELDER A. O. SMOOT
Expressed his pleasure at the instructions that had been imparted during
these meetings. Referring to the sharp reproofs administered in the forenoon
to some of the Latter-day "Mormons," it occurred to him that there were
others at fault besides the drinkers and swearers. He asked himself where
were the priests and teachers when these evils were taking place. If the
teachers were aware of these things, had they discharged their duty towards
the transgressors? If they had done this, and failing to work a reformation,
had they reported those cases to the Bishops? If so, they had done well, and
the fault would lay with the Bishop, unless he attended to these evil doers. He
would ask, why not apply the remedy? Let the erring brother who would not
reform go in peace and no longer be held in fellowship to spread the evil example. He thought perhaps some of the officers slept upon their rights and
duties, and neglected the injunctions of the revelations concerning these matters. If we allowed these evils to exist, their influence would be demoralizing. All are subject to weaknesses, but when we are once overcome thereby,
it should prove a warning, and we should take care not to be ever again overtaken in a similar way. In the course of forty years' experience he had seen
men holding official position in the priesthood committing the evils spoken of,
and their faults had been let slip. Why were these cases not alluded to ? Why
was not the inside of the platter cleaned? There was a fault somewhere; he
would leave others to s"ay where it was. God had commenced to establish his
kingdom on the earth, and had so organized his priesthood that these irregularities could be checked and wickedness purged out. The speaker bore testimony that this was the kingnom that Daniel saw] in spite of their imperfections, this was the people whom the Lord cherished ; this was the priesthood
that would regulate all things according to the heavenly pattern; and many
before him in the congregation were destined to be priests and kings unto the
Most High God. He had nought but blessings in his heart for the faithful,

and he besought the Lord to preserve them from the evils that predominate in
the world, enable them to magnify their calling, that Israel might triumph and
the enemy be placed beneath their feet.

