BISHOP Ii. W. HARDY.
The principle of tithing I heartily believe in, for the reason that the Lord
instituted it himself, and, therefore, it is not a new thing on the earth. It is
an old doctrine. Even Abraham paid his tithes to Melchisedec when he met
him, because he held the higher priesthood of God. We have had many lessons on this subject, so many that it is almost useless to talk about it now.
The time was, since we came to the valleys of the mountains, when the Saints
had nothing to pay tithing in but labor, hence they devoted every tenth day to
beautifying and building up this city and other cities. Every tenth day the
Bishops called upon those that lived in their wards to go to work on the public works and streets, and the call was generally very promptly responded to.
Thus when the tithing came to be made up at the end of the year, the tithing
paid in this way amounted to about $48.00 each man. As time wore on, however, the people became more numerous, and as they had so much to do for
themselves, they began to pay a tenth of what they raised, whatever ihat
might be—say butter, cheese, eggs, or anything else they might have about
their farms, and this amounted to a large sum when it was all brought in.
Now, we find, in looking over the schedules for 1879, men that we know are
doing a pretty good business—we find that they have paid from $3 to $5,
whereas it ought to be from $300 to $500. It is a mockery to attempt to pay
tithing to the Lord in this way. Had we the honest tithing of this people

to-day, we would not require to ask for any donations to the temple ; we would
have sufficient to maintain the poor and pay the salaries of the different officers
of the Church, and in addition to this, we would have so much that we would
scarcely have room to contain it. This is a principle that the Lord demands
of this people, and there is a blessing attached to it, for the Lord has promised
that inasmuch as we will pay our tithes he will open the windows of heaven
and pour out a blessing that there will not be room enough to receive it.



